Received: from MIT.EDU (PACIFIC-CARRIER-ANNEX.MIT.EDU [18.69.0.28]) by bloom-picayune.MIT.EDU (8.6.13/2.3JIK) with SMTP id PAA05112; Sat, 20 Apr 1996 15:09:25 -0400
Received: from [199.164.164.1] by MIT.EDU with SMTP
	id AA15856; Sat, 20 Apr 96 14:12:59 EDT
Received: by questrel.questrel.com (940816.SGI.8.6.9/940406.SGI)
	for news-answers-request@mit.edu id LAA25261; Sat, 20 Apr 1996 11:13:42 -0700
Newsgroups: rec.puzzles,news.answers,rec.answers
Path: senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!gatech!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!questrel!chris
From: chris@questrel.questrel.com (Chris Cole)
Subject: rec.puzzles Archive (language), part 20 of 35
Message-Id: <puzzles/archive/language/part4_745653851@questrel.com>
Followup-To: rec.puzzles
Summary: This is part of an archive of questions
 and answers that may be of interest to
 puzzle enthusiasts.
 Part 1 contains the index to the archive.
 Read the rec.puzzles FAQ for more information.
Sender: chris@questrel.questrel.com (Chris Cole)
Reply-To: archive-comment@questrel.questrel.com
Organization: Questrel, Inc.
References: <puzzles/archive/Instructions_745653851@questrel.com>
Date: Wed, 18 Aug 1993 06:05:54 GMT
Approved: news-answers-request@MIT.Edu
Expires: Thu, 1 Sep 1994 06:04:11 GMT
Lines: 928
Xref: senator-bedfellow.mit.edu rec.puzzles:25009 news.answers:11529 rec.answers:1929
Apparently-To: news-answers-request@mit.edu

Archive-name: puzzles/archive/language/part4
Last-modified: 17 Aug 1993
Version: 4


==> language/finnish/finnish.record.p <==
What are some Finnish words with unusual properties?

==> language/finnish/finnish.record.s <==

Spelling

Letter Patterns

Entire Word
longest word pitka"nta"hta"yksenkokonaistaloudelliseensuhdannekehitykseen (57,1)  
longest palindrome naamioimaan (11,1)  
longest beginning with a palindrome avattava (8,1)  
longest beginning with b palindrome bob bsb (3,2)  
longest beginning with c palindrome cfc cic (3,2)  
longest beginning with d palindrome dad did do"d (3,3)  
longest beginning with e palindrome ettette (7,1)  
longest beginning with f palindrome f (1,1)  
longest beginning with g palindrome gorog (5,1)  
longest beginning with h palindrome hannah (6,1)  
longest beginning with i palindrome illalli iskuksi (7,2)  
longest beginning with j palindrome jj (2,1)  
longest beginning with k palindrome kayak (5,1)  
longest beginning with l palindrome lehel level (5,2)  
longest beginning with m palindrome mkm mmm mqm mtm mum (3,5)  
longest beginning with n palindrome naamioimaan (11,1)  
longest beginning with o palindrome ookoo (5,1)  
longest beginning with p palindrome piip (4,1)  
longest beginning with q palindrome q (1,1)  
longest beginning with r palindrome radar reger reser reyer rodor rosor rovor (5,7)  
longest beginning with s palindrome syo"ppo"ys (8,1)  
longest beginning with t palindrome tavattavat (10,1)  
longest beginning with u palindrome uupuu (5,1)  
longest beginning with v palindrome vv (2,1)  
longest beginning with w palindrome w (1,1)  
longest beginning with x palindrome x (1,1)  
longest beginning with y palindrome yly yry yty (3,3)  
longest beginning with z palindrome z (1,1)  
longest with middle a palindrome assassa illalli (7,2)  
longest with middle b palindrome abba ebbe (4,2)  
longest with middle c palindrome ecce (4,1)  
longest with middle d palindrome radar rodor sadas (5,3)  
longest with middle e palindrome ettette (7,1)  
longest with middle f palindrome afa cfc (3,2)  
longest with middle g palindrome reger (5,1)  
longest with middle h palindrome lehel nahan nuhun (5,3)  
longest with middle i palindrome neien taiat (5,2)  
longest with middle j palindrome aja eje rjr (3,3)  
longest with middle k palindrome ookoo sokos tikit (5,3)  
longest with middle l palindrome tallat tollot tullut (6,3)  
longest with middle m palindrome naamaan (7,1)  
longest with middle n palindrome hannah (6,1)  
longest with middle o palindrome naamioimaan (11,1)  
longest with middle p palindrome syo"ppo"ys (8,1)  
longest with middle q palindrome mqm (3,1)  
longest with middle r palindrome suuruus (7,1)  
longest with middle s palindrome nissin tissit (6,2)  
longest with middle t palindrome tavattavat (10,1)  
longest with middle u palindrome iskuksi (7,1)  
longest with middle v palindrome level rovor tavat (5,3)  
longest with middle w palindrome w (1,1)  
longest with middle x palindrome exe ixi (3,2)  
longest with middle y palindrome kayak reyer (5,2)  
longest with middle z palindrome z (1,1)  
longest tautonym tytta"rentytta"ren (16,1)  
longest beginning with a tautonym asiasi (6,1)  
longest beginning with b tautonym baba bibi (4,2)  
longest beginning with c tautonym cancan (6,1)  
longest beginning with d tautonym dandan (6,1)  
longest beginning with e tautonym ee (2,1)  
longest beginning with f tautonym ?
longest beginning with g tautonym giogio (6,1)  
longest beginning with h tautonym ha"nha"n heihei (6,2)  
longest beginning with i tautonym isa"nisa"n (8,1)  
longest beginning with j tautonym jnejne joojoo (6,2)  
longest beginning with k tautonym kookoo (6,1)  
longest beginning with l tautonym lili lyly (4,2)  
longest beginning with m tautonym mormor (6,1)  
longest beginning with n tautonym nana nono (4,2)  
longest beginning with o tautonym ohoh (4,1)  
longest beginning with p tautonym peffapeffa pojanpojan (10,2)  
longest beginning with q tautonym ?
longest beginning with r tautonym roro (4,1)  
longest beginning with s tautonym sitsit (6,1)  
longest beginning with t tautonym tytta"rentytta"ren (16,1)  
longest beginning with u tautonym uu (2,1)  
longest beginning with v tautonym voivoivoivoi (12,1)  
longest beginning with w tautonym ?
longest beginning with x tautonym ?
longest beginning with y tautonym ?
longest beginning with z tautonym zouzou (6,1)  
longest head 'n' tail koiraskoira sellaisella vastaavasta (11,3)  
longest with middle a head 'n' tail vastaavasta (11,1)  
longest with middle b head 'n' tail b (1,1)  
longest with middle c head 'n' tail c (1,1)  
longest with middle d head 'n' tail ada ede idi ldl (3,4)  
longest with middle e head 'n' tail eeeee (5,1)  
longest with middle f head 'n' tail kafka (5,1)  
longest with middle g head 'n' tail edged magma (5,2)  
longest with middle h head 'n' tail jahja ohhoh vahva yhhyh (5,4)  
longest with middle i head 'n' tail sellaisella (11,1)  
longest with middle j head 'n' tail aijai (5,1)  
longest with middle k head 'n' tail kuukkuu (7,1)  
longest with middle l head 'n' tail kulku lalla lilli oslos salsa ta"lta" tultu volvo (5,8)  
longest with middle m head 'n' tail chamcha (7,1)  
longest with middle n head 'n' tail tarantara (9,1)  
longest with middle o head 'n' tail nenonen (7,1)  
longest with middle p head 'n' tail pappa peppe uupuu (5,3)  
longest with middle q head 'n' tail mqm (3,1)  
longest with middle r head 'n' tail giorgio (7,1)  
longest with middle s head 'n' tail koiraskoira (11,1)  
longest with middle t head 'n' tail A"llita"lli tavattava (9,2)  
longest with middle u head 'n' tail laula vauva (5,2)  
longest with middle v head 'n' tail ava eve (3,2)  
longest with middle w head 'n' tail w (1,1)  
longest with middle x head 'n' tail exe ixi (3,2)  
longest with middle y head 'n' tail ta"yta" va"yva" (5,2)  
longest with middle z head 'n' tail z (1,1)  

Subset of Word
longest internal palindrome bisneskeskukseksi rahoituskeskukseksi terveyskeskukseksi ulkomaalaiskeskukseksi (11,4)  
longest internal tautonym A"teritsiputeritsipuolilautatsija"nka" (18,1)  
longest repeated prefix kansankansanvaalilla kiittikiittijaka"yma"a"ntaas lapsenlapsenlapsia lapsenlapsensa victorvictoria (12,5)  
most consecutive doubled letters aatteessaan liikkeella"a"n pa"a"tteelleen pa"a"tteessa"a"n periaatteellaan tietokonepa"a"tteella"a"n (5,6)  
most doubled letters lennonsuunnittelupa"a"llikko" suhteellisuusperiaatteella tuotannonsuunnittelupa"a"llikko" (7,3)  
longest two cadence alabamalaista pajavasara sahatavara sahatavaraa sahatavaran sahatavarassa sahatavarasta salakavala satamamakasiinissa tasasakarainen ... (5,11)  
longest three cadence asianharrastajia (6,1)  
longest four cadence rajakauppaorganisaatio rajakauppaorganisaationsa unkarilaispakolaisia (5,3)  
longest five cadence artikkelistafinancial asiakasrekisterista" ateriakorvauksia autonasentajalta azerbaidzhanissa azerbaidzhanista dieettisuosituksista diplomiarkkitehti ekspressionistisesti epa"inhimillisissa"kin ... (4,61)  

Letter Counts

Lipograms
longest letters from first half nikkeliniemimaalla (18,1)  
longest letters from second half tytto"ysta"va"sta" (14,1)  
longest without ab yhdeksa"sta"kymmenesta"yhdeksa"sta" ympa"risto"nsuojeluinvestointien (30,2)  
longest without abcd ympa"risto"nsuojeluinvestointien (30,1)  
longest without a to h ka"a"nnynna"ispiiripa"a"lliko"ita" (27,1)  
longest without a to k ymma"rta"ma"tto"myytta"a"n (20,1)  
longest without a to n tytto"ysta"va"sta" (14,1)  
longest without a to q tytto"ysta"va"sta" (14,1)  
longest without a to s to"o"tta"a"va"t (10,1)  
longest without e apulaisosastotarkastajapa"a"lliko"n (32,1)  
longest without et kunnallisvaalikampanjassaan (27,1)  
longest without eta kirkkomusiikkipa"ivilla" (22,1)  
longest without etai lukuporoma"a"ra"nsa" (16,1)  
longest without etain hyo"kka"yska"skya" va"ha"ssa"kyro"ssa" (14,2)  
longest without etains hyo"kka"a"va"mpa"a" polkupyo"ra"lla" (13,2)  

Letter Choices

Vowels
longest all vowels eeeee uuuii (5,2)  
longest each vowel once perusla"hto"kohtia va"hemmisto"suojan va"hemmisto"suojat (16,3)  
longest each extended vowel once lennonvarmistustyo"ssa" (21,1)  
shortest each vowel once kaukona"ko"inen (13,1)  
shortest each extended vowel once syo"pa"kuolemia (13,1)  
shortest vowels in order ?
shortest extended vowels in order ?
longest vowels in order ?
longest extended vowels in order ?
shortest vowels in reverse order ?
shortest extended vowels in reverse order ?
longest vowels in reverse order ?
longest extended vowels in reverse order ?
longest one vowel kfsdistr schlicht schmaltz schmolck schwa"rmt schwartz (8,6)  
longest two vowels mA@ngbranschf schwartzkopf (12,2)  
longest containing a univocalic harrastajakalastajat (20,1)  
longest containing e univocalic schellenberger (14,1)  
longest containing i univocalic inhimillisiin nihilistisiin siviilitripin (13,3)  
longest containing o univocalic octophoros stockholms volkogonov (10,3)  
longest containing u univocalic kukkuluuruu punkjuttuun tunnusluvut (11,3)  
longest containing y univocalic kynnyskysymys (13,1)  
longest alternating extended vowel-consonant tavarajunaveturina (18,1)  
longest alternating vowel-consonant tavarajunaveturina (18,1)  

Consonants
longest consonant string entschluss franskspra@kiga gcdkssa" goldschmieds hdtvssa" hdtvsta" mkrtchian skdllle skdllta" skdlssa" ... (6,16)  
longest one consonant voivoivoivoi (12,1)  
longest two consonant muuttumattomuutta (17,1)  

Isograms
longest isogram va"esto"pohjakin ympa"risto"hanke (14,2)  
longest pair isogram itsena"isyytena" kokemattomalle teknisestika"a"n tunnetuimmille (14,4)  
longest trio isogram pojanpojanpojan (15,1)  
longest tetrad isogram voivoivoivoi (12,1)  
longest polygram kiireellisyysja"rjestyksesta" (27,1)  
longest pyramid kaikenkaikkiaan keskikokoisiksi sisilialaisessa sunniittisissit (15,4)  
most repeated letters pitka"nta"hta"yksenkokonaistaloudelliseensuhdannekehitykseen (14,1)  
highest containing a repeated oppilaastaanrakastajattarestaan (11,1)  
highest containing b repeated babbino babbitt babib barabbakseen belsebub bensinbomben bobbi bobbie bobby bobbyn ... (3,13)  
highest containing c repeated acapriccio accademica acceptance acconci bocaccio caccini capecchi capecchin cappuccilli capricciata ... (3,41)  
highest containing d repeated jodlalaadididuaadi (5,1)  
highest containing e repeated pitka"nta"hta"yksenkokonaistaloudelliseensuhdannekehitykseen (8,1)  
highest containing f repeated fofanoffit peffapeffa (4,2)  
highest containing g repeated vergangenheitsbewa"ltigung (4,1)  
highest containing h repeated harhahiihdosta hrushtshevhan rahghhh tphhhh vaihtoehtohoitoihin (4,5)  
highest containing i repeated luterilaispedagogismannerheimila"istannerheimila"isia" (10,1)  
highest containing j repeated harjujensuojeluohjelman ja"rjestelyasiakirjoja ja"rjesto"johtajaa ja"rjesto"johtajat ja"rjestyssijoja ja"senja"rjesto"jen ja"senja"rjesto"jensa ja"senja"rjesto"jensa" johtajanlahjojaan ka"sikirjoittajaohjaaja ... (4,18)  
highest containing k repeated hiukkastutkimuskeskuksen hiukkastutkimuskeskuksessa joukkokulutushyo"dykkeeksi kaupunkikaksikko keskuspankkipolitiikkaa kirkkorakennuksissakin kirsikkakukkapuutarha korkeakoulupaikkakunnilla pikkupikkukesakoihin pitka"nta"hta"yksenkokonaistaloudelliseensuhdannekehitykseen ... (6,11)  
highest containing l repeated nelja"lla"kymmenella"kuudella paikallisellala"a"nitasolla yritystenhintakilpailukykyynkansainva"lisilla"markkinoilla (7,3)  
highest containing m repeated mammuttimaisemmat (6,1)  
highest containing n repeated nelja"a"nmiljoonaankolmeensataantuhanteen (8,1)  
highest containing o repeated kokooomusjohtoisen (6,1)  
highest containing p repeated piipputupakkapakkaukseen poppanareppu (5,2)  
highest containing q repeated acoustiques acqua acquaintance acquanetta ahlqvist ahlqvistia ahlqvistillekin ahlqvistin almquist almqvist ... (1,388)  
highest containing r repeated baskiterroristija"rjesto" cairnterrierinsa" carrerras eurooppalaisterroristeihin eurooppalaisterroristeja harrivirran herrareservi itsemurhaterroristi kamariorkerteri karria"a"rivirkamiehia" ... (4,33)  
highest containing s repeated itsena"isyysjulistuksessa kansainva"lisyyskasvatuksessa kansallissosialistisesta kustannuslaskentaperusteisissa sadassaviidessa"kymmenessa" saksalaissuuntauksessa sisustusarkkitehtitoimistossa sisustusratkaisuissa sisustussuunnittelussa sotasyyllisyysasiassa ... (7,15)  
highest containing t repeated kertaka"ytto"tuotteita neuvostoliittoinstituutista tavoittamattomuutta tekstinka"sittelylaitteesta toteuttamistoimenpiteet toteuttamistoimenpiteita" tuotantotavoitteet tytta"rentytta"resta" tytto"tertsetti (7,9)  
highest containing u repeated suuronnettomuustutkimuslautakuntaa (8,1)  
highest containing v repeated arvonlisa"veroliikevaihtovero mandariininviipaleenvirtaviivainen vahingonkorvausvelvollisuuden voivoivoivoi (4,4)  
highest containing w repeated kwakwakwak (3,1)  
highest containing x repeated exxon exxonilla maxixe mexx mexxeineen xerxeen xerxes xxe xxii xxiiin ... (2,11)  
highest containing y repeated sotasyyllisyyskysymyksista" syyllisyyskysymykseen syyllisyyskysymyksesta" syyllisyyskysymysten (7,4)  
highest containing z repeated dzhordzhadze (3,1)  
most different letters ympa"risto"nsuojeluneuvottelukunnan ympa"risto"nsuojeluvaatimukset (18,2)  
highest ratio length/letters eeeee (500,1)  
highest ratio length/letters (no tautonyms) eeeee (500,1)  
lowest length 16 ratio length/letters perusla"hto"kohdan ympa"risto"ongelma (106,2)  
lowest length 17 ratio length/letters lyhenta"miskorvaus ympa"risto"ohjelman (106,2)  
lowest length 18 ratio length/letters vormundschaftliche ympa"risto"nsuojelua (112,2)  
lowest length 19 ratio length/letters ympa"risto"vahinkojen (111,1)  
lowest length 20 ratio length/letters ympa"risto"nvaihdoksen (117,1)  
lowest length 21 ratio length/letters kymmenvuotisjuhlarevy purjehduskyvytto"ma"ksi valtameripurjehduksen ympa"risto"nsuojelijain ympa"risto"puoluettakin (131,5)  
lowest length 22 ratio length/letters ra"ja"hdysvoimakkuudesta ympa"risto"nsuojelijoita (137,2)  
lowest length 23 ratio length/letters radiopuhelinja"rjestelma" viimeistelyharjoituksen ympa"risto"nsuojelijoiden ympa"risto"nsuojelullisia (143,4)  
lowest length 24 ratio length/letters va"hemmisto"suojapyka"lilla" ympa"risto"nsuojeluohjelma (141,2)  
lowest length 25 ratio length/letters ympa"risto"nsuojeluohjelman (147,1)  

Letter Appearance
longest short letters messusaarnassaan (16,1)  
longest tall letters kiihdytti pitkittyi ylikiltti (9,3)  
longest vertical-symmetry letters tavoittamattomuutta (19,1)  
longest horizontal-symmetry letters heikohko (8,1)  
longest full-symmetry letters ihhii ohhoh (5,2)  
highest ratio of dotted letters hiipii (66,1)  

Typewriter
longest top row prototyypit prototyyppi reportterit terroriteot (11,4)  
longest middle row lahjakkaalla (12,1)  
longest bottom row bbcn cnnn nbcn nvcn (4,4)  
longest in order erilla"a"n ryyppa"a"n (8,2)  
longest in reverse order bourree jaoitte na"ittte (7,3)  
longest left hand verrattaessa (12,1)  
longest right hand huippuhyppa"a"ja"na" myyma"la"pa"a"lliko"n (16,2)  
longest alternating hands turhanta"rkeys (13,1)  
longest one finger juhuuuuh (8,1)  
longest adjacent keys juhuuuuh (8,1)  

Puzzle
longest palindrome in Morse code ettette naisina waiting (7,3)  
longest formed with chemical symbols kasviyhdyskuntasukkessioita (27,1)  
longest formed with US postal codes victorvictoria (14,1)  
longest formed with amino acid abbreviations valmet valser (6,2)  
longest formed with piano notes baggage (7,1)  

Letter Order

Alphabetical
longest letters in order almost delors (6,2)  
longest letters in order with repeats innostuu (8,1)  
longest letters in reverse order polkea tonkia vuomia wolfea (6,4)  
longest letters in reverse order with repeats A"speeaa polkkia uuuuiih (7,3)  
longest roller-coaster matkustajasataman metsa"osakeyhtio"ta" (17,2)  
longest no letters in place pitka"nta"hta"yksenkokonaistaloudelliseensuhdannekehitykseen (57,1)  
most letters in place arkkitehtuuritoimisto avomerihylkeina" kiireellisyysja"rjestyksesta" laajenemismahdollisuudet soidensuojelun ta"ydellisyydenhimosta titaanidioksidipa"a"sto"ja" (5,7)  
most letters in place shifted elinkeinoverotuksesta elinkeinoverotus havainnollistuvat (7,3)  
most consecutive letters in order consecutively aikuistuvan aikuistuvana alistuvaisuuteen alistuvan alistuvia altistuvat astuva astuvalla astuvan astuvansa ... (4,227)  
most consecutive letters in order kulminaatiopiste kulminaatiopisteeseen kulminaatiopisteissa" kulminaatiopisteita" pyha"inja"a"nno"skokoelma (6,5)  
most consecutive letters limapohjakengilla" (10,1)  
highest ratio of consecutive letters to length heftig ja"lkim kolmen virsut (83,4)  

==> language/french/french.palindromes.p <==
List some French palindromes.

==> language/french/french.palindromes.s <==
Elu par cette crapule.
L'a^me su^re ruse mal.
A l'e'tape, e'pate-la!
Sexe ve^tu, tu te vexes.
Esope reste et se repose.
L'ame des uns n'use de mal.
Esope reste ici et se repose.
Leon a trop par rapport a Noel.
Se've`re mal a` l'a^me, re^ves.
Tu l'as trop e'crase', Ce'sar, ce Port-Salut !


				 9691
			     EDNA D'NILU
		       O. MU. ACERE. PSEG ROEG

  Trace l'inegal palindrome. Neige. Bagatelle, dira Hercule. Le brut
repentir, cet ecrit ne Perec. L'arc lu pese trop, lis a vice-versa.
  Perte . Cerise d'une verite banale, le Malstrom, Alep, mort
edulcore, crepe porte de ce desir brise d'un iota. Livre si aboli, tes
sacres ont ereinte, cor cruel, nos albatros. Etre las, autel bati,
miette vice-versa du jeu que fit, nacre, medical, le selenite relaps,
ellipsoidal.
  Ivre il bat, la turbine bat, l'isole me ravale : le verre si obei du
Pernod - eh, port su ! - obsedante sonate teintee d'ivresse.
  Ce reve se mit - peste ! - a blaguer. Beh ! L'art sec n'a si peu
qu'algebre, s'elabore de l'or evalue. Idiome etire, hesite, batard
replie, l'os nu. Si, a la gene secrete - verbe nul a l'instar de cinq
occis --, rets amincis, drailles inegales, il, avatar espace, caresse
ce noir Belzebuth, oeil offense, tire !
  L'echo fi (a desert) : Salut, sang, robe et ete.
  Fievres.
  Adam, rauque ; il ecrit : Abrupt ogre, eh, cerceuil, l'avenir tu,
effile, genial a la rue (murmure sud eu ne tire vaseline separee ;
l'epeire gelee rode : Hep, mortel ?) lia ta balafre native.
  Litige. Regagner (et ne m'...).
  Ressac. Il fremit, se sape, na ! Eh, cavale ! Timide, il nia ce
sursaut.

  Hasard repu, tel, le magicien a morte me lit. Un ignare le rapsode,
lacs emu, mixa, mela :
  Hep, Oceano Nox, o, bechamel azur ! Ejaculer ! Topaze !
  Le cedre, malabar faible, Arsinoe le macule, mante ivre, glauque,
pis, l'air atone (sic). Art sournois : si, medicinale, l'autre glace
(Melba ?) l'un ? N'alertai ni pollen (reteter : gerce, repu, dente...)
ni tobacco.
  Tu, desir, brio rime, eh, prolixe necrophore, tu ferres l'avenir
velu, ocre, cromant-ne ?
  Rage, l'ara. Veuglaire. Sedan, tes elzevirs t'obsedent. Romain ?
Exact. Et Nemrod selle ses Samson !
  Et nier teocalli ?
  Cave canem (car ce nu trop minois - rembuscade d'eruptives a babil -
admonestra, fil accru, Tetebleu ! qu'Ariane evitat net.
  Attention, ebenier factice, ressorti du reel. Ci-git. Alpaga, gnome,
le heros se lamente, trompe, chocolat : ce laid totem, ord, nil
aplati, rituel biscornu ; ce sacre bedeau (quel bat ce Jesus !).
Palace piege, Torpedo drue si a fellah tot ne peut ni le Big a ruer
bezef.
  L'eugeniste en rut consuma d'art son epi d'eolinne ici rot (eh...
rut ?). Toi, d'idem gin, elevera, elu, bifocal, lithos et notre pathos
a la hauteur de sec salamlec ?
  Elucider. Ion eclate : Elle ? Tenu. Etna but (item mal fame), degre
vide, julep : macedoine d'axiomes, sac seme d'Ecole, veniel, ah, le
verbe enivre (ne sucer ni arreter, eh ca jamais !) lu n'abolira le
hasard ?
  Nu, ottoman a l'echo, l'art su, oh, tara zero, belle Deborah, o,
sacre ! Pute, vertubleu, qualite si vertu a la part tarife (decalitres
?) et nul n'a lu trop s'il seria de ce basilic Iseut.

  Il a prie bonzes, Samaritain, Tora, vilains monstres (idolatres DNA
en sus), reves, evapores :
  Arbalete (betes) en noce du Tell ivre-mort, emeri tu : O, trapu a
elfe, il lie l'os, il lia jeremiade lucide. Petard ! Rate ta reinette,
bigleur cruel, non a ce lot ! Si, farcis-toi dito le coeur !
  Lied a monstre velu, ange ni bete, sec a pseudo delire : Tsarine
(sellee, la), Cid, Aretin, abruti de Ninive, Dejanire...
  Le Phenix, eve de sables, ecarte, ne peut egarer racines radiales en
mana : l'Oubli, fetiche en argile.
  Foudre.
  Prix : Ile de la Gorgone en roc, et, o, Licorne ecartelee,
  Sirene, rumb a bannir a ma (Red n'osa) niere de mimosa :
  Paysage d'Ourcq ocre sous ive d'ecale ;
  Volcan. Roc : tarot cele du Pere.
  Livres.
  Silene bavard, replie sur sa nullite (nu a je) belge : ipseite
banale. L' (eh, ca!) hydromel a ri, psalterion. Erree Lorelei...
  Fi ! Marmelade derive d'Aladine. D'or, Noel : creche (l'an ici
taverne gelee des bol...) a santon givre, fi !, cule de l'ane vairon.
  Lapalisse elu, gnoses sans orgeuil (ecru, sale, sec). 
  Saluts : angiome. T'es si craneur !

[ici, repartir vers le debut, pour arriver a la signature: ]

					 Georges Perec,
		                 Au Moulin d'Ande, 1969


==> language/french/french.record.p <==
What are some French words with unusual properties?


==> language/french/french.record.s <==

Spelling

Letter Patterns

Entire Word
longest word anticonstitutionnellement (25,1)  
longest palindrome ressasser (9,1)  
longest beginning with a palindrome aviva (5,1)  
longest beginning with b palindrome bob (3,1)  
longest beginning with c palindrome cc (2,1)  
longest beginning with d palindrome d' (1,1)  
longest beginning with e palindrome elle erre erre' esse (4,4)  
longest beginning with f palindrome ?
longest beginning with g palindrome gag (3,1)  
longest beginning with h palindrome h (1,1)  
longest beginning with i palindrome ici (3,1)  
longest beginning with j palindrome j' (1,1)  
longest beginning with k palindrome kayak (5,1)  
longest beginning with l palindrome l l' (1,2)  
longest beginning with m palindrome mm (2,1)  
longest beginning with n palindrome nanan (5,1)  
longest beginning with o palindrome o^ (1,1)  
longest beginning with p palindrome ?
longest beginning with q palindrome ?
longest beginning with r palindrome ressasser (9,1)  
longest beginning with s palindrome selle's selles serre's serres (6,4)  
longest beginning with t palindrome to^t tut (3,2)  
longest beginning with u palindrome ?
longest beginning with v palindrome ?
longest beginning with w palindrome ?
longest beginning with x palindrome x (1,1)  
longest beginning with y palindrome y (1,1)  
longest beginning with z palindrome ?
longest with middle a palindrome ressasser (9,1)  
longest with middle b palindrome ?
longest with middle c palindrome ici (3,1)  
longest with middle d palindrome radar (5,1)  
longest with middle e palindrome re'er (4,1)  
longest with middle f palindrome re'ifier (7,1)  
longest with middle g palindrome sagas (5,1)  
longest with middle h palindrome h (1,1)  
longest with middle i palindrome aviva (5,1)  
longest with middle j palindrome j' (1,1)  
longest with middle k palindrome ?
longest with middle l palindrome selle's selles (6,2)  
longest with middle m palindrome se`mes seme's (5,2)  
longest with middle n palindrome nanan sanas sonos (5,3)  
longest with middle o palindrome bob non to^t (3,3)  
longest with middle p palindrome ?
longest with middle q palindrome ?
longest with middle r palindrome serre's serres (6,2)  
longest with middle s palindrome esse (4,1)  
longest with middle t palindrome rotor (5,1)  
longest with middle u palindrome eue sus tut (3,3)  
longest with middle v palindrome re^ver se`ves (5,2)  
longest with middle w palindrome ?
longest with middle x palindrome sexes (5,1)  
longest with middle y palindrome kayak (5,1)  
longest with middle z palindrome ?
longest tautonym traintrain (10,1)  
longest beginning with a tautonym ?
longest beginning with b tautonym be'ribe'ri (8,1)  
longest beginning with c tautonym chercher couscous (8,2)  
longest beginning with d tautonym dada (4,1)  
longest beginning with e tautonym ?
longest beginning with f tautonym flonflon froufrou (8,2)  
longest beginning with g tautonym glouglou (8,1)  
longest beginning with h tautonym ?
longest beginning with i tautonym ?
longest beginning with j tautonym joujou (6,1)  
longest beginning with k tautonym ?
longest beginning with l tautonym ?
longest beginning with m tautonym me^me (4,1)  
longest beginning with n tautonym ?
longest beginning with o tautonym ?
longest beginning with p tautonym papa (4,1)  
longest beginning with q tautonym ?
longest beginning with r tautonym rentrent (8,1)  
longest beginning with s tautonym ?
longest beginning with t tautonym traintrain (10,1)  
longest beginning with u tautonym ?
longest beginning with v tautonym ?
longest beginning with w tautonym ?
longest beginning with x tautonym ?
longest beginning with y tautonym youyou (6,1)  
longest beginning with z tautonym ?
longest head 'n' tail cherche cherche' de'rader de'rider de'roder entrent hercher quelque raierai raseras (7,10)  
longest with middle a head 'n' tail de'rader (7,1)  
longest with middle b head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle c head 'n' tail hercher (7,1)  
longest with middle d head 'n' tail d' (1,1)  
longest with middle e head 'n' tail raierai raseras (7,2)  
longest with middle f head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle g head 'n' tail magma (5,1)  
longest with middle h head 'n' tail e'chec (5,1)  
longest with middle i head 'n' tail de'rider (7,1)  
longest with middle j head 'n' tail j' (1,1)  
longest with middle k head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle l head 'n' tail quelque (7,1)  
longest with middle m head 'n' tail pampa (5,1)  
longest with middle n head 'n' tail sense' tente tente' (5,3)  
longest with middle o head 'n' tail de'roder (7,1)  
longest with middle p head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle q head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle r head 'n' tail cherche cherche' entrent (7,3)  
longest with middle s head 'n' tail esses teste teste' (5,3)  
longest with middle t head 'n' tail antan (5,1)  
longest with middle u head 'n' tail veuve (5,1)  
longest with middle v head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle w head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle x head 'n' tail texte (5,1)  
longest with middle y head 'n' tail y (1,1)  
longest with middle z head 'n' tail ?

Subset of Word
longest internal palindrome ressasse`rent ressassera ressasserai ressasseraient ressasserais ressasserait ressasseras ressasserez ressasseriez ressasserions ... (9,12)  
longest internal tautonym cherche`rent chercherai chercheraient chercherais chercherait chercheras chercherez chercheriez chercherions chercherons ... (8,40)  
longest repeated prefix cherche`rent chercherai chercheraient chercherais chercherait chercheras chercherez chercheriez chercherions chercherons ... (8,22)  
most consecutive doubled letters irre'elle irre'elles (3,2)  
most doubled letters commissionne'e commissionne'es (4,2)  
longest two cadence de'ce'le're`rent de'ge'ne're`rent divisibilite' re'ge'ne're`rent re'ge'ne'rerez (5,5)  
longest three cadence effervescence effervescente effervescentes (5,3)  
longest four cadence enclencheraient entrelaceraient entreme^leraient entreposeraient insatisfaisants manutentionnions satisfaisants satisfaisions satisfassions (4,9)  
longest five cadence individualiserai individualiseraient individualiserais individualiserait (4,4)  

Letter Counts

Lipograms
longest letters from first half de'calcifie'e (11,1)  
longest letters from second half pourvoyons provoquons supportons (10,3)  
longest without ab constitutionnellement interprofessionnelles socioprofessionnelles (21,3)  
longest without abcd interprofessionnelles (21,1)  
longest without a to h soumissionnions (15,1)  
longest without a to k pourvoyons provoquons supportons surmontons (10,4)  
longest without a to n pourtours (9,1)  
longest without a to q trusts (6,1)  
longest without a to s tut (3,1)  
longest without e institutionnalisation (21,1)  
longest without et approfondissions approvisionnions individualisions (16,3)  
longest without eta circonscririons circonscrivions soumissionnions (15,3)  
longest without etai subordonnons (12,1)  
longest without etain corrompus froufrous glouglous surplombs (9,4)  
longest without etains corrompu courroux froufrou glouglou (8,4)  

Letter Choices

Vowels
longest all vowels oui"e (4,1)  
longest each vowel once assujettissons chiropracteurs contradicteurs croustillantes grandiloquents insupportables insurmontables obscurantistes raccourcissent reconstituants ... (14,16)  
longest each extended vowel once hydrographiques prophylactiques (15,2)  
shortest each vowel once oiseau (6,1)  
shortest each extended vowel once noyautiez (9,1)  
shortest vowels in order ?
shortest extended vowels in order ?
longest vowels in order ?
longest extended vowels in order ?
shortest vowels in reverse order rudoiera tutoiera (8,2)  
shortest extended vowels in reverse order ?
longest vowels in reverse order rudoieras tutoieras (9,2)  
longest extended vowels in reverse order ?
longest one vowel prompts putschs scripts sprints stricts (7,5)  
longest two vowels frustrants patchworks sphincters stressants tranchants transcrits transferts transports tremblants (10,9)  
longest containing a univocalic abracadabrants (14,1)  
longest containing e univocalic encheve^trements (15,1)  
longest containing i univocalic distinctifs indistincts instinctifs (11,3)  
longest containing o univocalic confondrons confondront confrontons coordonnons corroborons corromprons corrompront morfondrons morfondront (11,9)  
longest containing u univocalic cumulus putschs summums surplus tumulus (7,5)  
longest containing y univocalic lynx thym (4,2)  
longest alternating extended vowel-consonant de'solidariseras de'solidariserez re'capitulatives (15,3)  
longest alternating vowel-consonant de'solidariseras de'solidariserez re'capitulatives (15,3)  

Consonants
longest consonant string abstraction abstractions abstraie abstraient abstraies abstraira abstrairai abstrairaient abstrairais abstrairait ... (4,565)  
longest one consonant saisissais suissesses (10,2)  
longest two consonant assainissions dessaisissais ressaisissais (13,3)  

Isograms
longest isogram surplombaient (13,1)  
longest pair isogram concerteront e'parpillerai entrai^nerait occasionnais renai^traient tenaillaient trai^neraient (12,7)  
longest trio isogram resserre's resserres (9,2)  
longest tetrad isogram ?
longest polygram concentrationnaire (18,1)  
longest pyramid desserre'es ente^te`rent ente^tement rassasiais re'gresse'es redresse'es resserrera saisissait (10,8)  
most repeated letters concentrationnaire concentrationnaires contractualiserions internationaliserions internationaliserons photographieraient re'approvisionnerais re'approvisionneras standardiseraient (8,9)  
highest containing a repeated abracadabrant abracadabrante abracadabrantes abracadabrants (5,4)  
highest containing b repeated baobab baobabs bibliobus (3,3)  
highest containing c repeated concupiscence (4,1)  
highest containing d repeated de'bandade de'bandades dividende dividendes rhododendron rhododendrons superdividende superdividendes (3,8)  
highest containing e repeated de'ge'ne'rescence e've'nementielle e've'nementielles (6,3)  
highest containing f repeated affectif affectifs affirmatif affirmatifs effectif effectifs fieffe' fieffe'e fieffe'es fieffe's ... (3,14)  
highest containing g repeated gigogne gigognes grignotage (3,3)  
highest containing h repeated hachisch haschich haschisch (3,3)  
highest containing i repeated indivisibilite' (6,1)  
highest containing j repeated joujou joujoux (2,2)  
highest containing k repeated bookmaker bookmakers drakkar drakkars enkikiner kaki kakis kamikaze kamikazes kapok ... (2,26)  
highest containing l repeated intellectuelle intellectuellement intellectuelles libellule libellules (4,5)  
highest containing m repeated accommodement accommodements anticommunisme commandement commandements comme'mora comme'moraient comme'morais comme'morait comme'morant ... (3,112)  
highest containing n repeated anticonstitutionnellement conventionnaient conventionnant conventionne`rent conventionnement conventionnements conventionnent conventionneraient conventionnerions conventionnerons ... (5,25)  
highest containing o repeated coordonnerions coordonnerons coordonneront coordonnions coordonnons corroboration corroborerions corroborerons corroboreront corroborions ... (4,40)  
highest containing p repeated appropria appropriaient appropriais appropriait appropriant appropriation approprie approprie' approprie'e approprie'es ... (3,70)  
highest containing q repeated aquatique aquatiques e'quivoque e'quivoquer e'quivoques enquiquiner qqn qqu'un qqun quelconque ... (2,32)  
highest containing r repeated arre'rager carbonitrurer contrecarre`rent contrecarrer contrecarrera contrecarrerai contrecarreraient contrecarrerais contrecarrerait contrecarreras ... (4,177)  
highest containing s repeated dessaisissais dessaisissements dessaisisses dessaisissions dessaisissons ressaisissais ressaisisses ressaisissions ressaisissons suissesses (6,10)  
highest containing t repeated anticonstitutionnellement trottinette trottinettes (5,3)  
highest containing u repeated tumultueuse tumultueuses tumultueux (4,3)  
highest containing v repeated aviva avivaient avivais avivait avivant avive avive' avive'e avive'es avive's ... (2,349)  
highest containing w repeated bowling bowlings bungalow bungalows clown clownerie clowneries clowns crawl crawler ... (1,97)  
highest containing x repeated anxieux expe'rimentaux hexagonaux lexicaux luxueux luxurieux maximaux paradoxaux (2,8)  
highest containing y repeated hydrolyse hydrolyser hydrolyses hypophyse polyptyque polyptyques polysyllabique polysyllabiques psychanalysant psychanalyse ... (2,28)  
highest containing z repeated zigzaguerez zigzagueriez zigzaguez zigzaguiez (3,4)  
most different letters dactylographiques (16,1)  
highest ratio length/letters resserre'es saisissais (333,2)  
highest ratio length/letters (no tautonyms) resserre'es saisissais (333,2)  
lowest length 16 ratio length/letters dactylographique (106,1)  
lowest length 17 ratio length/letters dactylographiques (106,1)  
lowest length 18 ratio length/letters cine'matographiques dactylographierons (120,2)  
lowest length 19 ratio length/letters dactylographierions ste'nodactylographie (126,2)  
lowest length 20 ratio length/letters dactylographieraient (142,1)  
lowest length 21 ratio length/letters anticonstitutionnelle constitutionnellement institutionnalise`rent institutionnaliserait institutionnaliseront interprofessionnelles re'approvisionneraient socioprofessionnelles (210,8)  
lowest length 22 ratio length/letters e'lectroence'phalogramme (183,1)  
lowest length 23 ratio length/letters e'lectroence'phalogrammes (176,1)  
lowest length 24 ratio length/letters ?
lowest length 25 ratio length/letters anticonstitutionnellement (227,1)  

Letter Appearance
longest short letters concurrencerons (15,1)  
longest tall letters digit hippy (5,2)  
longest vertical-symmetry letters vouvoyait (9,1)  
longest horizontal-symmetry letters de'coche'e (8,1)  
longest full-symmetry letters oh (2,1)  
highest ratio of dotted letters infini inimitie' initia initiais initiait initie initie' initiiez jailli simili (50,10)  

Typewriter
longest top row re'pertorie'e re'pertorier (11,2)  
longest middle row alfas dadas dalla flash galas halls lassa sagas shahs (5,9)  
longest bottom row cc cm mm (2,3)  
longest in order e'tuis qqu'un (5,2)  
longest in reverse order chapitre cloi^tre'e (8,2)  
longest left hand extraterrestres (15,1)  
longest right hand moinillon (9,1)  
longest alternating hands authentifiaient authentiquement (15,2)  
longest one finger de'ce'de'e (7,1)  
longest adjacent keys desserre'es redresse'es ressasse'es resserre'es (10,4)  

Puzzle
longest palindrome in Morse code refiler tintait (7,2)  
longest formed with chemical symbols internationaliserions (21,1)  
longest formed with US postal codes calamine cocorico concilia concorde concorde' de'coinc/a lavandin mandarin me'morial moutarde (8,10)  
longest formed with amino acid abbreviations argile hisser promet serval valser (6,5)  
longest formed with piano notes de'ce'de'e de'gage'e de'gagea efface'e (7,4)  

Letter Order

Alphabetical
longest letters in order bijoux dehors (6,2)  
longest letters in order with repeats accent afflux bijoux billot dehors effort (6,6)  
longest letters in reverse order rongea songea spolia spolie spolie' (6,5)  
longest letters in reverse order with repeats spolie'e (7,1)  
longest roller-coaster de'budge'tiserions remilitarisation syste'matisations syste'matiserions (16,4)  
longest no letters in place constitutionnellement interprofessionnelles (21,2)  
most letters in place abasourdiraient acade'micien acade'micienne acade'miciennes acade'miciens accre'diteraient accre'ditiez accre'ditif accre'ditifs accre'ditions ... (4,40)  
most letters in place shifted anticolonialiste anticolonialistes be'ne'ficierions congratulerez coope'rative coope'ratives de'christianise'es de'christianiser de'finiraient de'finissions ... (5,27)  
most consecutive letters in order consecutively abce'der abce`s anophe`le anophe`les astuce astuces astucieuse astucieusement astucieuses astucieux ... (3,975)  
most consecutive letters in order abracadabrante abracadabrantes compliquerais compliqueras compliquerions compliquerons me'canographique me'canographiques misanthropique misanthropiques (5,10)  
most consecutive letters anthropome'triques cine'matographiques empaquetterions empaquetterons misanthropique misanthropiques sporadiquement (9,7)  
highest ratio of consecutive letters to length quarts survit vertus (83,3)  

==> language/german/german.palindromes.p <==
List some German palindromes.

==> language/german/german.palindromes.s <==
    Ein Neger mit Gazelle zagt im Regen nie.

==> language/german/german.record.p <==
What are some German words with unusual properties?

==> language/german/german.record.s <==

Spelling

Letter Patterns

Entire Word
longest word Arbeitslosenversicherungsbeitra"ge Bundesausbildungsfo"rderungsgesetz Krankenhaustagegeldversicherungen Wirtschaftspru"fungsgesellschaften (33,4)  
longest palindrome Rentner (7,1)  
longest beginning with a palindrome A"ra (3,1)  
longest beginning with b palindrome Bub (3,1)  
longest beginning with c palindrome ?
longest beginning with d palindrome ?
longest beginning with e palindrome Egge esse (4,2)  
longest beginning with f palindrome ?
longest beginning with g palindrome ?
longest beginning with h palindrome ?
longest beginning with i palindrome ibi (3,1)  
longest beginning with j palindrome ?
longest beginning with k palindrome ?
longest beginning with l palindrome ?
longest beginning with m palindrome minim (5,1)  
longest beginning with n palindrome nennen netten (6,2)  
longest beginning with o palindrome Otto (4,1)  
longest beginning with p palindrome ?
longest beginning with q palindrome ?
longest beginning with r palindrome Rentner (7,1)  
longest beginning with s palindrome Staats (6,1)  
longest beginning with t palindrome Tat tot (3,2)  
longest beginning with u palindrome Uhu (3,1)  
longest beginning with v palindrome ?
longest beginning with w palindrome ?
longest beginning with x palindrome ?
longest beginning with y palindrome ?
longest beginning with z palindrome ?
longest with middle a palindrome Staats (6,1)  
longest with middle b palindrome Neben neben (5,2)  
longest with middle c palindrome ?
longest with middle d palindrome ?
longest with middle e palindrome Stets stets (5,2)  
longest with middle f palindrome ?
longest with middle g palindrome Reger (5,1)  
longest with middle h palindrome Ehe Uhu ehe oho (3,4)  
longest with middle i palindrome ?
longest with middle j palindrome ?
longest with middle k palindrome ?
longest with middle l palindrome ?
longest with middle m palindrome ?
longest with middle n palindrome Renner nennen (6,2)  
longest with middle o palindrome tot (3,1)  
longest with middle p palindrome ?
longest with middle q palindrome ?
longest with middle r palindrome A"ra (3,1)  
longest with middle s palindrome esse (4,1)  
longest with middle t palindrome Rentner (7,1)  
longest with middle u palindrome Neuen neuen (5,2)  
longest with middle v palindrome ?
longest with middle w palindrome ?
longest with middle x palindrome Sexes (5,1)  
longest with middle y palindrome ?
longest with middle z palindrome ?
longest tautonym Zinseszinses (12,1)  
longest beginning with a tautonym ?
longest beginning with b tautonym Barbar Bonbon blabla (6,3)  
longest beginning with c tautonym ?
longest beginning with d tautonym ?
longest beginning with e tautonym ?
longest beginning with f tautonym ?
longest beginning with g tautonym ?
longest beginning with h tautonym ?
longest beginning with i tautonym ?
longest beginning with j tautonym ?
longest beginning with k tautonym ?
longest beginning with l tautonym ?
longest beginning with m tautonym Mama Momo (4,2)  
longest beginning with n tautonym nennen (6,1)  
longest beginning with o tautonym ?
longest beginning with p tautonym Purpur (6,1)  
longest beginning with q tautonym ?
longest beginning with r tautonym ?
longest beginning with s tautonym ?
longest beginning with t tautonym Tamtam (6,1)  
longest beginning with u tautonym ?
longest beginning with v tautonym ?
longest beginning with w tautonym Wowo (4,1)  
longest beginning with x tautonym ?
longest beginning with y tautonym ?
longest beginning with z tautonym Zinseszinses (12,1)  
longest head 'n' tail Helfershelfer (13,1)  
longest with middle a head 'n' tail Tat rar sas" (3,3)  
longest with middle b head 'n' tail Ausbaus (7,1)  
longest with middle c head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle d head 'n' tail enden (5,1)  
longest with middle e head 'n' tail testetest (9,1)  
longest with middle f head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle g head 'n' tail abgab engen (5,2)  
longest with middle h head 'n' tail Lehle (5,1)  
longest with middle i head 'n' tail Karteikarte (11,1)  
longest with middle j head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle k head 'n' tail Aufkauf (7,1)  
longest with middle l head 'n' tail Auflauf (7,1)  
longest with middle m head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle n head 'n' tail nenne (5,1)  
longest with middle o head 'n' tail sto"s"t (5,1)  
longest with middle p head 'n' tail Pippi (5,1)  
longest with middle q head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle r head 'n' tail A"ra (3,1)  
longest with middle s head 'n' tail Helfershelfer (13,1)  
longest with middle t head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle u head 'n' tail genu"gen (7,1)  
longest with middle v head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle w head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle x head 'n' tail Texte texte (5,2)  
longest with middle y head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle z head 'n' tail ?

Subset of Word
longest internal palindrome Achselho"hlen Afrikareferat Arbeitstier Assoziativita"t Badegelegenheit Begegnungen Betoniereinrichtung Bierpreiserho"hung Bu"hnenhumorist Darlehensnehmer ... (7,134)  
longest internal tautonym Frischfischfa"nger Menschenschicksale Menschenschla"ge Menschenschlag Menschenschlages Menschenschlangen menschenscheu menschenscheuem menschenscheuen menschenscheuer ... (10,17)  
longest repeated prefix Viervierteltakt wortwo"rtlich (8,2)  
most consecutive doubled letters Allee Alleebaum Alleen Alliierten Angriffsseite Angriffsspiel Auslo"seeffekt Aussaat Barentssee Beifallsstu"rme ... (2,127)  
most doubled letters Kommunikationsschnittstelle Mes"stellennummer Schnittstellennummer Spannungsschnittstelle (4,4)  
longest two cadence Panamakanal Panamakanalzone (5,2)  
longest three cadence Ferienreisenden Ferienreisendenrn Getreidepreisen Vermessenheiten elfenbeinerne herbestellende herbestellendem herbestellender herbestellendes hineindenkenden ... (5,26)  
longest four cadence Aufnahmeantra"gen Beistellnetzteil Betriebsmeister Diskussionsvorschlag Europarekordlerin Feingliedrigkeit Haushaltsausgaben Investmentberater Investmentberatern Investmentvehikel ... (4,39)  
longest five cadence A"nderungswu"nschen Beilagena"nderungen Benutzerinterface Diplomingenieurtitel Geburtenregelungen Gedankenleserinnen Gesetzesa"nderungen Kreditwesengesetze Neigungssensoren Textsteuerbefehle ... (4,11)  

Letter Counts

Lipograms
longest letters from first half klammheimliche (14,1)  
longest letters from second half Prototyps Stos"trupp (9,2)  
longest without ab Feuchtigkeitsunempfindlichkeit (30,1)  
longest without abcd Illustrierungskomponenten Insektenvertilgungsmittel Unternehmersteuervorteile (25,3)  
longest without a to h Kompositionsprinzip (19,1)  
longest without a to k Motorsports (11,1)  
longest without a to n Prototyps Stos"trupp (9,2)  
longest without a to q stu"rzt stu"tzt stutzt surrst wu"rzst (6,5)  
longest without a to s Tutu (4,1)  
longest without e Fus"ballnationalmannschaft Konfigurationsinformation (25,2)  
longest without et Diskussionsvorschlag (20,1)  
longest without eta Bildungskommission Zwillingsforschung (18,2)  
longest without etai Fu"hrungszuordnung (17,1)  
longest without etain Bohrvorschubs (13,1)  
longest without etains Chlorophyll (11,1)  

Letter Choices

Vowels
longest all vowels ?
longest each vowel once Schlichtungsvorschla"gen Schlichtungsvorschlages (23,2)  
longest each extended vowel once Hydraulikkolbens (16,1)  
shortest each vowel once Autopsie (8,1)  
shortest each extended vowel once Olympiafu"nfte (13,1)  
shortest vowels in order Arbeitsordnung (14,1)  
shortest extended vowels in order ?
longest vowels in order Arbeitsordnung (14,1)  
longest extended vowels in order ?
shortest vowels in reverse order ?
shortest extended vowels in reverse order ?
longest vowels in reverse order ?
longest extended vowels in reverse order ?
longest one vowel schluchzst schnarchst schrumpfst (10,3)  
longest two vowels Schlachtschiff (14,1)  
longest containing a univocalic Landtagswahlkampf (17,1)  
longest containing e univocalic Geschlechtsverkehrs erstrebenswertesten erstrebenswertester erstrebenswertestes schreckenerregendem schreckenerregenden schreckenerregendes zweckentfremdeteren zweckentfremdeterer zweckentfremdeteres ... (19,16)  
longest containing i univocalic pflichtwidrig spiritistisch zinspflichtig (13,3)  
longest containing o univocalic Mordkomplott Vollkornbrot (12,2)  
longest containing u univocalic Buchdruckkunst Flugstu"tzpunkt Luftstu"tzpunkt (14,3)  
longest containing y univocalic Lynch (5,1)  
longest alternating extended vowel-consonant Analysegera"te Pilotenexamen Relativita"ten Solitarita"ten Totalisatoren dazugeho"rigen dazugeho"riger dazugeho"riges hexadezimalem hexadezimalen ... (13,20)  
longest alternating vowel-consonant Pilotenexamen Relativita"ten Solitarita"ten Totalisatoren dazugeho"rigen dazugeho"riger dazugeho"riges hexadezimalem hexadezimalen karikativerem ... (13,19)  

Consonants
longest consonant string Angstschweis" Angstschweis"es Angstschwelle Gerichtsschreiber Gerichtsschreibern Geschichtsschreiber Geschichtsschreibers Geschichtsschreibung Glu"ckwunschschreiben (8,9)  
longest one consonant Unionen rarerer tutetet (7,3)  
longest two consonant eingegangenen (13,1)  

Isograms
longest isogram Bildungsprojekt Machtverfilzung (15,2)  
longest pair isogram Parita"tspreise (14,1)  
longest trio isogram ?
longest tetrad isogram ?
longest polygram proportionierteren (18,1)  
longest pyramid beendenden besessenen ero"rterter erretteten errettetes gegessenes geretteter gesessenen (10,8)  
most repeated letters Wirtschaftspru"fungsgesellschaften (12,1)  
highest containing a repeated A"quatorialafrika Antiquariatskatalog Antiquariatskataloge Apparateglasbla"ser Bausparkassenkatastrophe Fra"sparametervariation Fus"ballnationalmannschaft Generalstaatsanwalt Haushaltungsapparate Panamakanal ... (5,16)  
highest containing b repeated Betriebsbeschreibung Bibelbearbeitungen (4,2)  
highest containing c repeated Hochdruckschlauch Schnickschnacklose Schreckensnachrichten gleichgeschlechtlicher (4,4)  
highest containing d repeated Mindestdividende (4,1)  
highest containing e repeated Gewerbesteuerbescheid Herzensangelegenheiten Unternehmersteuervorteile aufsehenerregendere aufsehenerregenderem aufsehenerregenderen aufsehenerregenderes bemerkenswerterweise ekelerregenderem ekelerregenderen ... (7,25)  
highest containing f repeated Angriffswaffen Briefaufschrifft Elfmeterpfiff Frachtschiffsflotte Kaffeelo"ffel Kaffeelo"ffeln Koffergriff Luftwaffenchef Offensivangriff Schiffsfrachtbrief ... (4,12)  
highest containing g repeated entgegengegangene entgegengegangenen entgegengegangener (5,3)  
highest containing h repeated Ho"chstwahrscheinlich ho"chstwahrscheinlich (5,2)  
highest containing i repeated Initialisierungsbit ptimistischeroptimistic (6,2)  
highest containing j repeated Jesaja Jubila"umsjahr Jungja"ger (2,3)  
highest containing k repeated Wolkenkuckucksla"nder Wolkenkuckucksland Wolkenkuckuckslands (4,3)  
highest containing l repeated Halbintellektueller Parallelfall Ultraschallwellen Vollwellengleichrichtung (5,4)  
highest containing m repeated zusammenbekommenem zusammengekommenem zusammengenommenem (5,3)  
highest containing n repeated Entspannungstendenzen (7,1)  
highest containing o repeated Koalitionsprotokoll Monopolorganisation (5,2)  
highest containing p repeated Papierpuppen (5,1)  
highest containing q repeated Liquidita"tsquellen (2,1)  
highest containing r repeated Frequenzprogrammierbarer (6,1)  
highest containing s repeated Bundestagsausschusses Mes"werterfassungssystems Schlichtungsausschusses Wissenschaftsausschus" (7,4)  
highest containing t repeated Bestattungsinstitut Bestattungsinstitute Bestattungsinstituten Frontplattentastatur Schnittstellenattribute (6,5)  
highest containing u repeated Grundstu"cksausnutzung Lusuxausfu"hrung U"berbru"ckungsru"ckzahlung Untersuchungsausschus" (5,4)  
highest containing v repeated Alternativvorschlag Altkonservativer Bundesvermo"gensverwaltung Devalvation Devalvierung Devisenvergehen Direktversicherungsvertra"ge Dividendenverzicht Effektivverzinsung Exklusivvertrag ... (2,338)  
highest containing w repeated Baumwollweis"waren (3,1)  
highest containing x repeated Artaxerxes Exportpraxis Pixelmatrix (2,3)  
highest containing y repeated Hydrauliksystemen Hydraulikzylinder Hydraulikzylindern Hydraulikzylinders Lymphozyten Mylady Polystyrol Psychoanalyse Psychoanalytiker Psychoanalytikern ... (2,24)  
highest containing z repeated Einzelhandelsumsatzzahlen Einzelzimmerzuschlag Jazzszene Lizenzzahlungen hinzuzuziehen zuru"ckzuzahlen zuru"ckzuziehen (3,7)  
most different letters Zylinderkopfschraube (18,1)  
highest ratio length/letters entgegengegangenen entgegengetretenen (360,2)  
highest ratio length/letters (no tautonyms) entgegengegangenen entgegengetretenen (360,2)  
lowest length 16 ratio length/letters Abschottzylinder Computerhandling Dschungelka"mpfer Maiglo"ckchenduft Mikroschaltungen Schwarzgeldkonto Vierpolschaltung Vorschubzylinder Zwischenprodukte aufdringlichstem ... (106,12)  
lowest length 17 ratio length/letters Bandstahlwerkzeug Denkmalschutzjahr Dschungelka"mpfern Entwicklungsfirma Gewerkschaftsbund Grundsa"tzlichkeit Kaufverpflichtung Mietwohnungsblock Parkverbotsschild Pflichtversa"umnis ... (113,23)  
lowest length 18 ratio length/letters Bevo"lkerungsdichte Druckkopfbelastung Flu"chtlingsproblem Publikumsnachfrage Vo"lkergemeinschaft vormundschaftliche zwangsverpflichtet (112,7)  
lowest length 19 ratio length/letters Bevo"lkerungszuwachs Bundessozialgericht Bundestagswahlkampf Datenblocksicherung Flu"chtlingsproblems Softwarebezeichnung vormundschaftlichen vormundschaftlicher vormundschaftliches (118,9)  
lowest length 20 ratio length/letters Zylinderkopfschraube (111,1)  
lowest length 21 ratio length/letters Bevo"lkerungswachstums (123,1)  
lowest length 22 ratio length/letters Profilschneidautomatik Stempeldruckabha"ngiges (129,2)  
lowest length 23 ratio length/letters Bekleidungsvorschriften Gemeinschaftsproduktion (135,2)  
lowest length 24 ratio length/letters Verwendungsmo"glichkeiten Wirtschaftspublikationen (141,2)  
lowest length 25 ratio length/letters Gemeinschaftsproduktionen Handlungsbevollma"chtigter U"berwachungsmo"glichkeiten Vera"nderungsmo"glichkeiten (147,4)  

Letter Appearance
longest short letters Wasserressourcen (16,1)  
longest tall letters billigt (7,1)  
longest vertical-symmetry letters Atomium Automat (7,2)  
longest horizontal-symmetry letters bedecke (7,1)  
longest full-symmetry letters hoi oho (3,2)  
highest ratio of dotted letters Bikini (50,1)  

Typewriter
longest top row erweiterter erzitterter erzittertet irritierter irritiertet quittierter repetierter repetiertet rezitiertet zerru"tteter (11,10)  
longest middle row Allahs (6,1)  
longest bottom row ?
longest in order Wertzoll (8,1)  
longest in reverse order Blatte Kapuze kaputt (6,3)  
longest left hand Staatsvertrages Vertragsstaates wetterfestester (15,3)  
longest right hand Poliklinik (10,1)  
longest alternating hands vorzeichenrichtig (17,1)  
longest one finger Mu"nz Mumm (4,2)  
longest adjacent keys Fresser wassert (7,2)  

Puzzle
longest palindrome in Morse code Retter (6,1)  
longest formed with chemical symbols Knotenrechnerapplikation Kontingentbeschra"nkungen Pressevero"ffentlichungen (24,3)  
longest formed with US postal codes Maschine Matthias (8,2)  
longest formed with amino acid abbreviations Pro arg pro (3,3)  
longest formed with piano notes Abgabe Bagdad (6,2)  

Letter Order

Alphabetical
longest letters in order Chintz Chlors Delors ablo"st dehnst filmst (6,6)  
longest letters in order with repeats Beginnt beehrst beeilst beginnt beirrst (7,5)  
longest letters in reverse order wolkige (7,1)  
longest letters in reverse order with repeats sonnige trommle vo"llige wolkige wollige wonnige (7,6)  
longest roller-coaster paramilita"rischen verfu"hrerischeren verfu"hrerischerer verfu"hrerischeres zivilisatorischem zivilisatorischen zivilisatorischer (17,7)  
longest no letters in place Geschwindigkeitsu"berschreitungen Selbstverwirklichungsmo"glichkeit (32,2)  
most letters in place Geldentwicklung Goldentwicklung (6,2)  
most letters in place shifted Entwicklungskosten Entwicklungskostenbeteiligung Entwicklungssystem Entwicklungssysteme Softwareentwicklungssystem (7,5)  
most consecutive letters in order consecutively Anwendungsunterstu"tzung Applikationsunterstu"tzung Arbeitslosenunterstu"tzung Arbeitslosenunterstu"tzungen Architekturstudenten Bierstuben Bildersturm Bravourstu"ck Bravourstu"ckchen Bu"cherstube ... (4,170)  
most consecutive letters in order Abschirmdienst Abschlus"widerstand Abschottzylinder Alarmknopf Berufsgeheimnis Blumentopf Bundesverfassungsgericht Christusvisionen Datenerfassungsrechners Elefantengeda"chtnis ... (5,41)  
most consecutive letters Fallschirmja"gerbrigade (10,1)  
highest ratio of consecutive letters to length fa"hige (83,1)  

