Received: from MIT.EDU (PACIFIC-CARRIER-ANNEX.MIT.EDU [18.69.0.28]) by bloom-picayune.MIT.EDU (8.6.13/2.3JIK) with SMTP id PAA04706; Sat, 20 Apr 1996 15:05:28 -0400
Received: from [199.164.164.1] by MIT.EDU with SMTP
	id AA15845; Sat, 20 Apr 96 14:12:48 EDT
Received: by questrel.questrel.com (940816.SGI.8.6.9/940406.SGI)
	for news-answers-request@mit.edu id LAA25264; Sat, 20 Apr 1996 11:13:48 -0700
Newsgroups: rec.puzzles,news.answers,rec.answers
Path: senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!gatech!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!questrel!chris
From: chris@questrel.questrel.com (Chris Cole)
Subject: rec.puzzles Archive (language), part 21 of 35
Message-Id: <puzzles/archive/language/part5_745653851@questrel.com>
Followup-To: rec.puzzles
Summary: This is part of an archive of questions
 and answers that may be of interest to
 puzzle enthusiasts.
 Part 1 contains the index to the archive.
 Read the rec.puzzles FAQ for more information.
Sender: chris@questrel.questrel.com (Chris Cole)
Reply-To: archive-comment@questrel.questrel.com
Organization: Questrel, Inc.
References: <puzzles/archive/Instructions_745653851@questrel.com>
Date: Wed, 18 Aug 1993 06:06:00 GMT
Approved: news-answers-request@MIT.Edu
Expires: Thu, 1 Sep 1994 06:04:11 GMT
Lines: 883
Xref: senator-bedfellow.mit.edu rec.puzzles:25005 news.answers:11525 rec.answers:1925
Apparently-To: news-answers-request@mit.edu

Archive-name: puzzles/archive/language/part5
Last-modified: 17 Aug 1993
Version: 4


==> language/italian/italian.record.p <==
What are some Italian words with unusual properties?

==> language/italian/italian.record.s <==

Spelling

Letter Patterns

Entire Word
longest word contemporaneamente contraddistinguere insufficientemente reinizializzazione (18,4)  
longest palindrome onorarono (9,1)  
longest beginning with a palindrome avallava (8,1)  
longest beginning with b palindrome ?
longest beginning with c palindrome ?
longest beginning with d palindrome ?
longest beginning with e palindrome esse (4,1)  
longest beginning with f palindrome ?
longest beginning with g palindrome ?
longest beginning with h palindrome ?
longest beginning with i palindrome inni (4,1)  
longest beginning with j palindrome ?
longest beginning with k palindrome ?
longest beginning with l palindrome ?
longest beginning with m palindrome ?
longest beginning with n palindrome non (3,1)  
longest beginning with o palindrome onorarono (9,1)  
longest beginning with p palindrome ?
longest beginning with q palindrome ?
longest beginning with r palindrome ?
longest beginning with s palindrome ?
longest beginning with t palindrome ?
longest beginning with u palindrome ?
longest beginning with v palindrome ?
longest beginning with w palindrome ?
longest beginning with x palindrome ?
longest beginning with y palindrome ?
longest beginning with z palindrome ?
longest with middle a palindrome onorarono (9,1)  
longest with middle b palindrome ?
longest with middle c palindrome ?
longest with middle d palindrome ?
longest with middle e palindrome arera aveva (5,2)  
longest with middle f palindrome afa (3,1)  
longest with middle g palindrome ?
longest with middle h palindrome ?
longest with middle i palindrome i (1,1)  
longest with middle j palindrome ?
longest with middle k palindrome ?
longest with middle l palindrome avallava (8,1)  
longest with middle m palindrome ama (3,1)  
longest with middle n palindrome inni (4,1)  
longest with middle o palindrome non (3,1)  
longest with middle p palindrome ?
longest with middle q palindrome ?
longest with middle r palindrome aerea (5,1)  
longest with middle s palindrome esse osso (4,2)  
longest with middle t palindrome otto (4,1)  
longest with middle u palindrome ?
longest with middle v palindrome ivi (3,1)  
longest with middle w palindrome ?
longest with middle x palindrome ?
longest with middle y palindrome ?
longest with middle z palindrome ?
longest tautonym restereste (10,1)  
longest beginning with a tautonym ?
longest beginning with b tautonym ?
longest beginning with c tautonym ?
longest beginning with d tautonym ?
longest beginning with e tautonym ?
longest beginning with f tautonym ?
longest beginning with g tautonym ?
longest beginning with h tautonym ?
longest beginning with i tautonym ?
longest beginning with j tautonym ?
longest beginning with k tautonym ?
longest beginning with l tautonym ?
longest beginning with m tautonym ?
longest beginning with n tautonym nana (4,1)  
longest beginning with o tautonym ?
longest beginning with p tautonym ?
longest beginning with q tautonym ?
longest beginning with r tautonym restereste (10,1)  
longest beginning with s tautonym ?
longest beginning with t tautonym ?
longest beginning with u tautonym ?
longest beginning with v tautonym vivi (4,1)  
longest beginning with w tautonym ?
longest beginning with x tautonym ?
longest beginning with y tautonym ?
longest beginning with z tautonym ?
longest head 'n' tail conoscono (9,1)  
longest with middle a head 'n' tail leale (5,1)  
longest with middle b head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle c head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle d head 'n' tail iodio (5,1)  
longest with middle e head 'n' tail diedi (5,1)  
longest with middle f head 'n' tail afa (3,1)  
longest with middle g head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle h head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle i head 'n' tail i (1,1)  
longest with middle j head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle k head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle l head 'n' tail melme palpa salsa tolto (5,4)  
longest with middle m head 'n' tail bimbi mamma pompo pompo` (5,4)  
longest with middle n head 'n' tail nonno tanta tinti tonto (5,4)  
longest with middle o head 'n' tail non (3,1)  
longest with middle p head 'n' tail pappa (5,1)  
longest with middle q head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle r head 'n' tail barba gorgo sorso torto (5,4)  
longest with middle s head 'n' tail conoscono (9,1)  
longest with middle t head 'n' tail tette (5,1)  
longest with middle u head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle v head 'n' tail ivi (3,1)  
longest with middle w head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle x head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle y head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle z head 'n' tail ?

Subset of Word
longest internal palindrome altererete ammacammo ammalammo cessassero fissassimo ignorarono interpreta interpretare interpretassi interpretata ... (7,28)  
longest internal tautonym assassina assassinai assassini assassino battettero chiamiamolo contentera contentero gargarismi gargarismo ... (6,86)  
longest repeated prefix assassina assassinai assassini assassino gargarismi gargarismo mormorii mormorio tartaruga tartarughe ... (6,52)  
most consecutive doubled letters abbellii addii avvii inghiottii lineetta lineette muggii rifuggii rullii sbigottii ... (2,14)  
most doubled letters abbassammo abbassasse abbassassi abbattemmo abbattesse abbattessi abbattette abbattetti abbellii abbellimmo ... (3,86)  
longest two cadence eleverete genererete inimicizia inimicizie recederete venererete (5,6)  
longest three cadence abbastanza consentendone decrescente eccellente espediente esperienze immissioni incipriati incipriavi inconveniente ... (4,19)  
longest four cadence abbraccia abbracciai acclamata acclamava acclamera` acclamerai affiatata affiatava affiatera affiaterai ... (3,211)  
longest five cadence identifichi inerentemente inserimenti permanentemente posizionandosi visualizzabili visualizzati visualizzazione (3,8)  

Letter Counts

Lipograms
longest letters from first half illeggibili (11,1)  
longest letters from second half sottoposto (10,1)  
longest without ab insufficientemente (18,1)  
longest without abcd sottoespressione sottoespressioni (16,2)  
longest without a to h intromissioni (13,1)  
longest without a to k prorompono proromputo sottoposto sottosuolo (10,4)  
longest without a to n sottoposto (10,1)  
longest without a to q su tu (2,2)  
longest without a to s tu (2,1)  
longest without e incontrollabili (15,1)  
longest without et configurazioni posizionandosi visualizzabili (14,3)  
longest without eta corrispondono riconoscibili (13,2)  
longest without etai compongono concludono concorrono corrompono prorompono scrupoloso soccombono suppongono (10,8)  
longest without etain scrupoloso (10,1)  
longest without etains cocuzzolo (9,1)  

Letter Choices

Vowels
longest all vowels ai io (2,2)  
longest each vowel once aggiungendo computative concettuali documentati progettuali (11,5)  
longest each extended vowel once ?
shortest each vowel once aiuole (6,1)  
shortest each extended vowel once ?
shortest vowels in order ?
shortest extended vowels in order ?
longest vowels in order ?
longest extended vowels in order ?
shortest vowels in reverse order ?
shortest extended vowels in reverse order ?
longest vowels in reverse order ?
longest extended vowels in reverse order ?
longest one vowel gran nord (4,2)  
longest two vowels sblocchi scndendo sgranchi` spranghe spranghi standard stringhe stronchi (8,8)  
longest containing a univocalic abbastanza affrancata affrancava aggrappata aggrappava amalgamata amalgamava fracassata fracassava raccattata ... (10,26)  
longest containing e univocalic precedentemente (15,1)  
longest containing i univocalic intimiditi intimidivi invisibili irrigiditi ripristini significhi stillicidi (10,7)  
longest containing o univocalic compongono concorrono corrompono prorompono protocollo soccombono sottoposto (10,7)  
longest containing u univocalic blu gru pur sud sul (3,5)  
longest containing y univocalic ?
longest alternating extended vowel-consonant denominatore disabilitare manipolatori recuperabile ridefinibile ridefinibili (12,6)  
longest alternating vowel-consonant denominatore disabilitare manipolatori recuperabile ridefinibile ridefinibili (12,6)  

Consonants
longest consonant string scndendo substrati substrato (4,3)  
longest one consonant acciacco aggiogai aiutiate annoiano attuiate tatuiate (8,6)  
longest two consonant abbassasse abbassassi abbattette abbattetti abbattiate accettiate acciaieria acciaierie accorcerai accorcerei ... (10,173)  

Isograms
longest isogram acquistero` adulterino asciughero calpestino censuriamo combinaste compariste comperasti compilaste completavi ... (10,166)  
longest pair isogram abbattesse abboccammo abbondando abbozzammo accennasse accettasse addobbammo addossammo afferrasse affettasse ... (10,39)  
longest trio isogram ?
longest tetrad isogram ?
longest polygram abbattesse abbattette abboccammo abbondando abbozzammo accennasse accettasse addobbammo addossammo afferrasse ... (10,53)  
longest pyramid abbassasse abbassassi ammassammo ammassasse ammassassi ammazzammo assassinai istituissi istituisti obererebbe ... (10,21)  
most repeated letters caratteristiche commercializzato contemporaneamente contraddistinguere dicotomicamente duecentocinquanta interfacciamento rappresentativi riorganizzazione (6,9)  
highest containing a repeated amalgamata amalgamava (5,2)  
highest containing b repeated abolirebbe abuserebbe babbi babbo babbuini babbuino bacerebbe baderebbe bagnerebbe ballerebbe ... (3,36)  
highest containing c repeated acciacchi acciacco (4,2)  
highest containing d repeated addendi addensando addentando additando addobbando addossando condividendo dedicando degradando denudando ... (3,21)  
highest containing e repeated precedentemente (6,1)  
highest containing f repeated affabile affabili affabilita affaccera affaccerai affaccerei affaccero affacci affaccia affacciai ... (2,1260)  
highest containing g repeated aggeggi gorgheggi gorgheggia gorgheggio (4,4)  
highest containing h repeated chiaccherare chimiche chioschi chirurghi piluchhero` rachitiche schiocchi (2,7)  
highest containing i repeated distinguibili inimicizia inimicizie inizializzati inizializzazione insiemistici intimidii intimiditi intimidivi invisibili ... (5,15)  
highest containing j repeated gjiaccerei (1,1)  
highest containing k repeated monokini (1,1)  
highest containing l repeated allocarlo allodola allodole ballabile ballabili cancellarlo cellula cellule collezionarli colonnelli ... (3,39)  
highest containing m repeated ammacammo ammalammo ammaliammo ammassammo ammazzammo ammirammo ammontammo camminammo commutammo immigrammo ... (4,12)  
highest containing n repeated annientano annientino annunziano annunzino condannano condannino consentendone danneranno inconveniente indipendentemente ... (4,17)  
highest containing o repeated coinvolgono compongono concorrono conoscono coronarono corrispondono corrompono doloroso logorarono monopolio ... (4,39)  
highest containing p repeated apppare appropri appropria appropriai appropriato approprino approprio pappa pappagalli pappagallo ... (3,20)  
highest containing q repeated qualunque soqquadro (2,2)  
highest containing r repeated percorrere precorrere ricorrere rincorrere (4,4)  
highest containing s repeated assestasse assestassi salassasse salassassi scassasse scassassi sgrassasse sgrassassi squassasse squassassi ... (5,12)  
highest containing t repeated abbattette abbattetti altrettante attentaste attentasti attentata attentate attentati attentato attentiate ... (4,67)  
highest containing u repeated qualunque tumultuera` tumultuero` usufruendo usufruiate usufruimmo usufruira usufruirai usufruire usufruirei ... (3,26)  
highest containing v repeated ravvivava ravvivavi ravvivavo (4,3)  
highest containing w repeated software (1,1)  
highest containing x repeated uxorcidi uxorcidio xenofobia xilofono (1,4)  
highest containing y repeated ?
highest containing z repeated inizializzazione reinizializzazione (4,2)  
most different letters contraddistinguere (12,1)  
highest ratio length/letters allattata attaccata errerebbe tintinnii (300,4)  
highest ratio length/letters (no tautonyms) allattata attaccata errerebbe tintinnii (300,4)  
lowest length 16 ratio length/letters contrapposizione schematizzazione tradizionalmente (145,3)  
lowest length 17 ratio length/letters multidimensionali proporzionalmente (154,2)  
lowest length 18 ratio length/letters contraddistinguere (150,1)  
lowest length 19 ratio length/letters ?
lowest length 20 ratio length/letters ?
lowest length 21 ratio length/letters ?
lowest length 22 ratio length/letters ?
lowest length 23 ratio length/letters ?
lowest length 24 ratio length/letters ?
lowest length 25 ratio length/letters ?

Letter Appearance
longest short letters accasarono accasavamo accasavano accaseremo accecarono accecavamo accecavano accennammo accennasse accusarono ... (10,226)  
longest tall letters diffidi litighi (7,2)  
longest vertical-symmetry letters avvitavamo (10,1)  
longest horizontal-symmetry letters chiocce ciocche dediche dedichi eccedei obbedii (7,6)  
longest full-symmetry letters ho io (2,2)  
highest ratio of dotted letters iniziai rifinii (57,2)  

Typewriter
longest top row irrequiete irrequieti irrequieto irriterete otturerete perequerei pitturerei proiettero` proiettore proiettori ... (10,18)  
longest middle row salassa (7,1)  
longest bottom row ?
longest in order toppa (5,1)  
longest in reverse order capire lauree sapore vapore (6,4)  
longest left hand abbassasse abbassaste abbattesse abbatteste abbattette abbeverare abbeverata abbeverate abbeverava abbeverera` ... (10,199)  
longest right hand illuminino (10,1)  
longest alternating hands riformando rifornendo ritornando (10,3)  
longest one finger eccede (6,1)  
longest adjacent keys eresse essere fredde popolo popolo` sedere (6,6)  

Puzzle
longest palindrome in Morse code infilai (7,1)  
longest formed with chemical symbols rappresentativi (15,1)  
longest formed with US postal codes allagavamo allattiamo arrivavamo caricavamo comandiamo cominciamo cominciava cominciavi conciavamo conciliamo ... (10,32)  
longest formed with amino acid abbreviations pro val (3,2)  
longest formed with piano notes accadda accadde (7,2)  

Letter Order

Alphabetical
longest letters in order chino degno (5,2)  
longest letters in order with repeats accenno (7,1)  
longest letters in reverse order solida sponda tromba tronca (6,4)  
longest letters in reverse order with repeats solida spicca sponda trecca tromba tronca (6,6)  
longest roller-coaster compilatore compilatori preliminare preliminari (11,4)  
longest no letters in place reinizializzazione (18,1)  
most letters in place abbreviai acciacchi accrediti dannegghi predefinite predefinito rendergli (4,7)  
most letters in place shifted definibili ghiaccino operativo ridefinibile ridefinibili (5,5)  
most consecutive letters in order consecutively abroghiamo abroghiate abroghino affoghiamo affoghiate affoghino agghiacci agghiaccia agghiaccio aggioghino ... (3,622)  
most consecutive letters in order restaurava restauravi restauravo restituiva restituivi restituivo (5,6)  
most consecutive letters perquisito (7,1)  
highest ratio of consecutive letters to length fughe fughi stura sturi sturo sturo` (80,6)  

==> language/multi.palindromes.p <==
List some multi-lingual palindromes.

==> language/multi.palindromes.s <==
Hebrew: aba or abba, English: dad
German: tat, English: deed

==> language/norwegian/norwegian.record.p <==
What are some Norwegian words with unusual properties?

==> language/norwegian/norwegian.record.s <==

Spelling

Letter Patterns

Entire Word
longest word arbeidstakerorganisasjonene korrekturlesingsprogrammene statstjenestemannskartellet undervisningsorganisasjoner (27,4)  
longest palindrome stillits (8,1)  
longest beginning with a palindrome amma anna (4,2)  
longest beginning with b palindrome ?
longest beginning with c palindrome ?
longest beginning with d palindrome da@d do"d dyd (3,3)  
longest beginning with e palindrome ergre (5,1)  
longest beginning with f palindrome ?
longest beginning with g palindrome gniding (7,1)  
longest beginning with h palindrome ?
longest beginning with i palindrome i (1,1)  
longest beginning with j palindrome ?
longest beginning with k palindrome kik kok (3,2)  
longest beginning with l palindrome ?
longest beginning with m palindrome madam (5,1)  
longest beginning with n palindrome nebben (6,1)  
longest beginning with o palindrome obo (3,1)  
longest beginning with p palindrome pep pip pop prp (3,4)  
longest beginning with q palindrome ?
longest beginning with r palindrome rallar rekker renner retter (6,4)  
longest beginning with s palindrome stillits (8,1)  
longest beginning with t palindrome tekket tellet teppet tillit (6,4)  
longest beginning with u palindrome ?
longest beginning with v palindrome vev viv vov (3,3)  
longest beginning with w palindrome ?
longest beginning with x palindrome ?
longest beginning with y palindrome ?
longest beginning with z palindrome ?
longest with middle a palindrome stats (5,1)  
longest with middle b palindrome nebben (6,1)  
longest with middle c palindrome ?
longest with middle d palindrome gniding stedets (7,2)  
longest with middle e palindrome sees (4,1)  
longest with middle f palindrome ?
longest with middle g palindrome ergre (5,1)  
longest with middle h palindrome aha (3,1)  
longest with middle i palindrome eie kik pip rir tit viv (3,6)  
longest with middle j palindrome ?
longest with middle k palindrome rekker tekket (6,2)  
longest with middle l palindrome stillits (8,1)  
longest with middle m palindrome amma (4,1)  
longest with middle n palindrome renner (6,1)  
longest with middle o palindrome kok non pop ror sos vov (3,6)  
longest with middle p palindrome teppet (6,1)  
longest with middle q palindrome ?
longest with middle r palindrome prp (3,1)  
longest with middle s palindrome nesen reser (5,2)  
longest with middle t palindrome retter settes (6,2)  
longest with middle u palindrome sus tut (3,2)  
longest with middle v palindrome neven (5,1)  
longest with middle w palindrome ?
longest with middle x palindrome ?
longest with middle y palindrome dyd ryr (3,2)  
longest with middle z palindrome ?
longest tautonym barbar berber bonbon cancan erverv farfar mormor purpur tartar (6,9)  
longest beginning with a tautonym ?
longest beginning with b tautonym barbar berber bonbon (6,3)  
longest beginning with c tautonym cancan (6,1)  
longest beginning with d tautonym ?
longest beginning with e tautonym erverv (6,1)  
longest beginning with f tautonym farfar (6,1)  
longest beginning with g tautonym ?
longest beginning with h tautonym ?
longest beginning with i tautonym ?
longest beginning with j tautonym ?
longest beginning with k tautonym kaka (4,1)  
longest beginning with l tautonym ?
longest beginning with m tautonym mormor (6,1)  
longest beginning with n tautonym nn (2,1)  
longest beginning with o tautonym ?
longest beginning with p tautonym purpur (6,1)  
longest beginning with q tautonym ?
longest beginning with r tautonym ?
longest beginning with s tautonym ?
longest beginning with t tautonym tartar (6,1)  
longest beginning with u tautonym ?
longest beginning with v tautonym veve (4,1)  
longest beginning with w tautonym ?
longest beginning with x tautonym ?
longest beginning with y tautonym ?
longest beginning with z tautonym ?
longest head 'n' tail barnebarn endevende (9,2)  
longest with middle a head 'n' tail miami (5,1)  
longest with middle b head 'n' tail obo (3,1)  
longest with middle c head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle d head 'n' tail enden (5,1)  
longest with middle e head 'n' tail barnebarn (9,1)  
longest with middle f head 'n' tail lefle (5,1)  
longest with middle g head 'n' tail avgav engen magma (5,3)  
longest with middle h head 'n' tail aha (3,1)  
longest with middle i head 'n' tail seise veive (5,2)  
longest with middle j head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle k head 'n' tail enken omkom saksa takta tekte (5,5)  
longest with middle l head 'n' tail erler etlet oslos telte volvo (5,5)  
longest with middle m head 'n' tail ermer mamma (5,2)  
longest with middle n head 'n' tail ganga nenne tanta tente (5,4)  
longest with middle o head 'n' tail kok non pop ror sos vov (3,6)  
longest with middle p head 'n' tail pappa (5,1)  
longest with middle q head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle r head 'n' tail terte verve (5,2)  
longest with middle s head 'n' tail etset sesse tasta teste (5,4)  
longest with middle t head 'n' tail enten erter satsa tette (5,4)  
longest with middle u head 'n' tail sausa stust (5,2)  
longest with middle v head 'n' tail endevende (9,1)  
longest with middle w head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle x head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle y head 'n' tail dyd ryr (3,2)  
longest with middle z head 'n' tail ?

Subset of Word
longest internal palindrome pennevennen (9,1)  
longest internal tautonym allmennmenneskelig allmennmenneskelige (8,2)  
longest repeated prefix barbaren barbariet barbarisere barbarisk barbariske berberis berberisen berberiss bonbonen cancanen ... (6,27)  
most consecutive doubled letters irreell kassaapparat kassaapparatet (3,3)  
most doubled letters tilleggsstraff tilleggsstraffa tilleggsstraffen (4,3)  
longest two cadence degenerere degenererer regenerere (5,3)  
longest three cadence medbestemmelsesrett (6,1)  
longest four cadence fengselsvesenet rekordforbedring (4,2)  
longest five cadence arbeidsdepartementet arbeidsdepartementets vindusinnfatningen (4,3)  

Letter Counts

Lipograms
longest letters from first half allmenndannende (15,1)  
longest letters from second half oppsta@tt oppstuss prototyp stuttorv torvstro" (8,5)  
longest without ab retrospeksjonretroversjon (25,1)  
longest without abcd retrospeksjonretroversjon (25,1)  
longest without a to h sta@lkonstruksjon (16,1)  
longest without a to k motorsport motorstopp (10,2)  
longest without a to n oppsta@tt oppstuss prototyp stuttorv torvstro" (8,5)  
longest without a to q to"rrva"r utsto"tt utstyrt (7,3)  
longest without a to s ta@tt tutt tytt uto"y va"tt va@tt (4,6)  
longest without e byggforskningsinstitutt (23,1)  
longest without et ungdomsorganisasjon (19,1)  
longest without eta forskningsopphold (17,1)  
longest without etai ungdomsforbunds (15,1)  
longest without etain bruksforhold (12,1)  
longest without etains koldjomfru va"rforhold (10,2)  

Letter Choices

Vowels
longest all vowels aue eau eie (3,3)  
longest each vowel once ?
longest each extended vowel once ?
shortest each vowel once ?
shortest each extended vowel once ?
shortest vowels in order ?
shortest extended vowels in order ?
longest vowels in order ?
longest extended vowels in order ?
shortest vowels in reverse order ?
shortest extended vowels in reverse order ?
longest vowels in reverse order ?
longest extended vowels in reverse order ?
longest one vowel skjelmsk (8,1)  
longest two vowels skjo"nnskrift stridsskrift (12,2)  
longest containing a univocalic farskapssaka kassaapparat salgsapparat (12,3)  
longest containing e univocalic medbestemmelsesrett (19,1)  
longest containing i univocalic prisstigning spiritistisk stridsskrift (12,3)  
longest containing o univocalic oppholdsrom (11,1)  
longest containing u univocalic brukskunst (10,1)  
longest containing y univocalic lydtrykk (8,1)  
longest alternating extended vowel-consonant demilitarisere originaliteten vitamininisere (14,3)  
longest alternating vowel-consonant demilitarisere originaliteten vitamininisere (14,3)  

Consonants
longest consonant string punktskrift tilleggsstraff tilleggsstraffa tilleggsstraffen (6,4)  
longest one consonant unionene (8,1)  
longest two consonant appenninene autoriteter statssto"tte territoriet (11,4)  

Isograms
longest isogram godtkjo"psvaren (14,1)  
longest pair isogram musikkinstrumenter (18,1)  
longest trio isogram ?
longest tetrad isogram ?
longest polygram musikkinstrumenter (18,1)  
longest pyramid ekserserer statskassa statsskatt (10,3)  
most repeated letters differanseapproksimasjon kommunikasjonshjelpemidler musikkinstrumenter tverrkontraksjonstallet (9,4)  
highest containing a repeated abrakadabra abrakadabraet administrasjonsapparatet administrasjonsapparatets kassaapparat kassaapparatet (5,6)  
highest containing b repeated babbel babbelet ballklubben barneklubb bedriftsklubb bedriftsklubben bensinbombe bensinbomber bergnebbe breiflabb ... (3,13)  
highest containing c repeated baccardi backfisch boccia cabincruiser cabincruiseren cancan cancanen cancer canceren ccm ... (2,49)  
highest containing d repeated do"dfo"dd driftsunderskudd middelaldrende skreddersydd (4,4)  
highest containing e repeated aldersgrensebestemmelsene (8,1)  
highest containing f repeated diffusjonseffekt (4,1)  
highest containing g repeated beregningsgrunnlaget boligbyggelag boligbygging boligbyggingen tilleggsbevilgning tilleggsbevilgningen (4,6)  
highest containing h repeated avhengighetsforhold avhengighetsforholdet (3,2)  
highest containing i repeated akklimatiseringsperiode aluminiumsindustri aluminiumsindustrien artilleristilling binomialutvikling differensialligning differensialligningen differensialligningene differensiallikning differensiallikningen ... (4,78)  
highest containing j repeated aksjeemisjonen aksjeemisjoner aksjekjo"pet aksjemajoriteten aksjonslinje aksjonslinjen artisjokkhjerte bataljonssjef bekjentgjo"relse bekjentgjo"relsen ... (2,86)  
highest containing k repeated alkoholikerklinikk konstruksjonsteknikken vekkeklokke vekkerklokke (5,4)  
highest containing l repeated fellingstillatelse (5,1)  
highest containing m repeated familiemedlemmer komitemedlemmenes mellomrommet (4,3)  
highest containing n repeated annonseomkostningene grunnutdanningen tangensialspenningen vindusinnfatningen (6,4)  
highest containing o repeated onomatopoetikon onomatopoetikonet onomatopoietikon (5,3)  
highest containing p repeated oppstopper oppstopperen opptrapping opptrappinga opptrappingen (4,5)  
highest containing q repeated aqua diplomatique enquete enqueteen enqueten iq mannequin mannequinen mannequiner mocambique ... (1,25)  
highest containing r repeated arbeiderpartiregjering korrekturlesingsprogrammene korrekturlesingsprogrammet retrospeksjonretroversjon terroriserer (5,5)  
highest containing s repeated administrasjonsmessig assosiasjonsrikdom bero"ringsassosiasjon beslutningsprosess beslutningsprosessen bessemerprosessen diffusjonsprosess eksistensialistisk livsforsikringsselskaper mikroprosessorsystem ... (5,13)  
highest containing t repeated sentralinstituttet statstjenestemannskartellet (6,2)  
highest containing u repeated akupunktur aluminiumfluorid aluminiumforbruket aluminiumsindustri aluminiumsindustrien aluminiumsprodukter aluminiumsvinduer dumdumkule futurum futurumet ... (3,25)  
highest containing v repeated veloverveid virvelvind virvelvinden (3,3)  
highest containing w repeated knowhow newsweek warszawa wienerwurst wigwam (2,5)  
highest containing x repeated xerxes (2,1)  
highest containing y repeated arbeidslo"ysetrygd belysningsstyrke belysningsstyrken belysningsutstyr bygdo"y byggelo"yve byggryn byggrynet bystyre bystyret ... (2,86)  
highest containing z repeated jazz jazzen jibbenzzsjo"uttr mezzoforte mezzosopran mezzosopranen razzia razziaen zanzibar zanzibarisk (2,10)  
most different letters publikasjonsvirksomhet (17,1)  
highest ratio length/letters attentatmennene etterrett refererer (300,3)  
highest ratio length/letters (no tautonyms) attentatmennene etterrett refererer (300,3)  
lowest length 16 ratio length/letters nyhetsformidling redaksjonsutvalg utviklingsarbeid (114,3)  
lowest length 17 ratio length/letters riksma@lsforbundet (113,1)  
lowest length 18 ratio length/letters utvekslingsprogram (120,1)  
lowest length 19 ratio length/letters avgiftsforho"yelsene (126,1)  
lowest length 20 ratio length/letters avskjedsforestilling popula"rvitenskapelig (133,2)  
lowest length 21 ratio length/letters administrasjonsflo"yen opplysningsvirksomhet popula"rvitenskapelige (140,3)  
lowest length 22 ratio length/letters publikasjonsvirksomhet (129,1)  
lowest length 23 ratio length/letters databehandlingsfunksjon tekstbehandlingsprogram (143,2)  
lowest length 24 ratio length/letters folkeopplysningsarbeidet (150,1)  
lowest length 25 ratio length/letters koordinattransformasjoner (192,1)  

Letter Appearance
longest short letters reassuransen sommervarmen (12,2)  
longest tall letters flittig flyktig pliktig tilbydd tilbygg tilgift tilgitt (7,7)  
longest vertical-symmetry letters automat ho"ya"tta mahatma mottatt (7,4)  
longest horizontal-symmetry letters bebodde (7,1)  
longest full-symmetry letters ohio (4,1)  
highest ratio of dotted letters bikini isjias jiujitsu (50,3)  

Typewriter
longest top row opprioritere uprioriterte (12,2)  
longest middle row allslags do"dsfall salgslag (8,3)  
longest bottom row bbc ccm (3,2)  
longest in order etikk etiop etisk ettal oppad topas toppa topps tuppa yppal (5,10)  
longest in reverse order blaute blautt blotte kaputt kjappe spotte spytte (6,7)  
longest left hand breddegrader (12,1)  
longest right hand poliklinikk (11,1)  
longest alternating hands subjektivisme (13,1)  
longest one finger hunn kikk munn (4,3)  
longest adjacent keys dressere dressert sedertre (8,3)  

Puzzle
longest palindrome in Morse code rekker retter settes tekket teppet (6,5)  
longest formed with chemical symbols alkoholikerklinikk vindusinnfatningen (18,2)  
longest formed with US postal codes mottakinga utmattinga utnyttinga (10,3)  
longest formed with amino acid abbreviations valser (6,1)  
longest formed with piano notes bededag (7,1)  

Letter Order

Alphabetical
longest letters in order forsta@ (6,1)  
longest letters in order with repeats addert begikk forsta@ oppsta@ (6,4)  
longest letters in reverse order utrolige (8,1)  
longest letters in reverse order with repeats utrolige (8,1)  
longest roller-coaster operativsystemet (16,1)  
longest no letters in place statstjenestemannskartellet undervisningsorganisasjoner (27,2)  
most letters in place aksjekapitalen (5,1)  
most letters in place shifted aksjekapitalen avdelingskontorer databehandlingsutstyr deflasjonen differensialoperator forstuva forstuve forstuvet frekvensforskyver gjenoppretta ... (5,29)  
most consecutive letters in order consecutively forstuva forstuve forstuvet (5,3)  
most consecutive letters in order akklimatiseringsperiode allmenneuropeiske fo"rsteutgaven forstuva forstuve forstuvet kulminasjon kulminasjonen vekselstro"msgenerator vekselstro"msgeneratoren (5,10)  
most consecutive letters databehandlingsfunksjon kommunikasjonshjelpemidler publikasjonsvirksomhet (9,3)  
highest ratio of consecutive letters to length heftig (83,1)  

==> language/repeated.word.p <==
In any language, construct a sentence by repeating one word four times.

==> language/repeated.word.s <==
In Annamite:
    Ba ba ba ba.
	(Three ladies gave a box on the ear to the favorite of the Prince.)

==> language/swedish/swedish.record.p <==
What are some Swedish words with unusual properties?

==> language/swedish/swedish.record.s <==

Spelling

Letter Patterns

Entire Word
longest word programmeringsfo"rutsa"ttningar (29,1)  
longest palindrome rattar (6,1)  
longest beginning with a palindrome Anna alla amma (4,3)  
longest beginning with b palindrome ?
longest beginning with c palindrome ?
longest beginning with d palindrome da@d do"d (3,2)  
longest beginning with e palindrome esse (4,1)  
longest beginning with f palindrome ?
longest beginning with g palindrome ?
longest beginning with h palindrome ?
longest beginning with i palindrome ini (3,1)  
longest beginning with j palindrome ?
longest beginning with k palindrome ka"k ka@k kik ko"k (3,4)  
longest beginning with l palindrome ?
longest beginning with m palindrome mim (3,1)  
longest beginning with n palindrome ?
longest beginning with o palindrome oro (3,1)  
longest beginning with p palindrome pdp pip pop (3,3)  
longest beginning with q palindrome ?
longest beginning with r palindrome rattar (6,1)  
longest beginning with s palindrome sa@s ses sis sos sus (3,5)  
longest beginning with t palindrome ta"t ta@t tut (3,3)  
longest beginning with u palindrome ?
longest beginning with v palindrome varav (5,1)  
longest beginning with w palindrome ?
longest beginning with x palindrome ?
longest beginning with y palindrome ?
longest beginning with z palindrome ?
longest with middle a palindrome rar (3,1)  
longest with middle b palindrome ?
longest with middle c palindrome ?
longest with middle d palindrome radar (5,1)  
longest with middle e palindrome ses vev (3,2)  
longest with middle f palindrome ?
longest with middle g palindrome ?
longest with middle h palindrome aha (3,1)  
longest with middle i palindrome kik mim pip sis viv (3,5)  
longest with middle j palindrome aja (3,1)  
longest with middle k palindrome eke (3,1)  
longest with middle l palindrome alla (4,1)  
longest with middle m palindrome ramar (5,1)  
longest with middle n palindrome Anna (4,1)  
longest with middle o palindrome pop sos vov (3,3)  
longest with middle p palindrome apa (3,1)  
longest with middle q palindrome ?
longest with middle r palindrome varav (5,1)  
longest with middle s palindrome esse (4,1)  
longest with middle t palindrome rattar (6,1)  
longest with middle u palindrome sus tut (3,2)  
longest with middle v palindrome ?
longest with middle w palindrome ?
longest with middle x palindrome ?
longest with middle y palindrome ?
longest with middle z palindrome ?
longest tautonym berber mormor (6,2)  
longest beginning with a tautonym ?
longest beginning with b tautonym berber (6,1)  
longest beginning with c tautonym ?
longest beginning with d tautonym ?
longest beginning with e tautonym ?
longest beginning with f tautonym ?
longest beginning with g tautonym ?
longest beginning with h tautonym ?
longest beginning with i tautonym ?
longest beginning with j tautonym jojo (4,1)  
longest beginning with k tautonym ?
longest beginning with l tautonym ?
longest beginning with m tautonym mormor (6,1)  
longest beginning with n tautonym ?
longest beginning with o tautonym ?
longest beginning with p tautonym ?
longest beginning with q tautonym ?
longest beginning with r tautonym ?
longest beginning with s tautonym ?
longest beginning with t tautonym toto (4,1)  
longest beginning with u tautonym ?
longest beginning with v tautonym ?
longest beginning with w tautonym ?
longest beginning with x tautonym ?
longest beginning with y tautonym ?
longest beginning with z tautonym ?
longest head 'n' tail Volvo annan armar avgav dadda elfel mamma pappa samsa sansa ... (5,11)  
longest with middle a head 'n' tail rar (3,1)  
longest with middle b head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle c head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle d head 'n' tail dadda (5,1)  
longest with middle e head 'n' tail ses vev (3,2)  
longest with middle f head 'n' tail elfel (5,1)  
longest with middle g head 'n' tail avgav (5,1)  
longest with middle h head 'n' tail aha (3,1)  
longest with middle i head 'n' tail kik mim pip sis viv (3,5)  
longest with middle j head 'n' tail aja (3,1)  
longest with middle k head 'n' tail eke (3,1)  
longest with middle l head 'n' tail Volvo (5,1)  
longest with middle m head 'n' tail armar mamma samsa (5,3)  
longest with middle n head 'n' tail annan sansa (5,2)  
longest with middle o head 'n' tail pop sos vov (3,3)  
longest with middle p head 'n' tail pappa (5,1)  
longest with middle q head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle r head 'n' tail oro (3,1)  
longest with middle s head 'n' tail asa (3,1)  
longest with middle t head 'n' tail satsa (5,1)  
longest with middle u head 'n' tail sus tut (3,2)  
longest with middle v head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle w head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle x head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle y head 'n' tail ?
longest with middle z head 'n' tail ?

Subset of Word
longest internal palindrome dragningar fo"redragningar fo"rsvagningar hoptagningar interpretator interpretatorer interpretatorn personalplaneringsdelar promemoria promemorian ... (7,12)  
longest internal tautonym a@rsperspektiv (8,1)  
longest repeated prefix mormorsmors (6,1)  
most consecutive doubled letters ideell ideella ideellt kommitteer reell reella reellt skadeeffekt (2,8)  
most doubled letters kommitteer labbtillfa"llen labbtillfa"llet omsta"llningstillfa"llet otillfredssta"llande rapporteringstillfa"lle tillverkningssta"lle (3,7)  
longest two cadence levererera leverereras (4,2)  
longest three cadence sammanfalla sammanfatta sammankallar sammanlagda sammansatta skalbaggarna (4,6)  
longest four cadence a"ndringarna atlantpakten attrahera beslutsma"ssighet civilisation distribution fo"ra"ldraga@rd ha@rdvaruservice ha@rdvaruverktyg handlingarna ... (3,33)  
longest five cadence a"rendehantering anknytningen anla"ggningen anpassningen anva"ndningen formuleringarna granbarkborre ho"gerparenteser inloggningen inriktningen ... (3,21)  

Letter Counts

Lipograms
longest letters from first half kemikaliebehandla (17,1)  
longest letters from second half a@tra@va"rt prototyp storspov torvstro" (8,4)  
longest without ab produktionsstyrningssystem (26,1)  
longest without abcd synkroniseringssekvenser (24,1)  
longest without a to h ma"nniskokropp tullkontorist (13,2)  
longest without a to k mormorsmors (11,1)  
longest without a to n a@tra@va"rt prototyp storspov torvstro" (8,4)  
longest without a to q a@tra@va"rt (8,1)  
longest without a to s tva"tt (5,1)  
longest without e anva"ndarsammanslutningar cirkulationstja"nstgo"ring (24,2)  
longest without et bokfo"ringsgranskning (20,1)  
longest without eta uppkopplingsfo"rso"k (18,1)  
longest without etai la"nsskolna"mnds (14,1)  
longest without etain mormorsmors (11,1)  
longest without etains blomkrukor dva"rgbjo"rk jordloppor (10,3)  

Letter Choices

Vowels
longest all vowels a@a"o" (3,1)  
longest each vowel once ?
longest each extended vowel once ?
shortest each vowel once ?
shortest each extended vowel once ?
shortest vowels in order ?
shortest extended vowels in order ?
longest vowels in order ?
longest extended vowels in order ?
shortest vowels in reverse order ?
shortest extended vowels in reverse order ?
longest vowels in reverse order ?
longest extended vowels in reverse order ?
longest one vowel dtlkrets (8,1)  
longest two vowels blixtsnabbt gransknings (11,2)  
longest containing a univocalic sammankallar skalbaggarna (12,2)  
longest containing e univocalic reglementet televerkets (11,2)  
longest containing i univocalic tidningsklipp (13,1)  
longest containing o univocalic plockkontroll (13,1)  
longest containing u univocalic slutspurt (9,1)  
longest containing y univocalic nybyggd (7,1)  
longest alternating extended vowel-consonant digitaliserade (14,1)  
longest alternating vowel-consonant digitaliserade (14,1)  

Consonants
longest consonant string a"ngsstrit programmeringsspra@k regeringsskrivelse (6,3)  
longest one consonant Aurora (6,1)  
longest two consonant barria"rer intention intuition outtestat preparera (9,5)  

Isograms
longest isogram Ha"gerstalund o"verska@dligt oo"verska@dlig ta"vlingsform tidsluckorna tva@hjulingar (12,6)  
longest pair isogram gireringen (10,1)  
longest trio isogram ?
longest tetrad isogram ?
longest polygram mormorsmors (11,1)  
longest pyramid anamma fiffig minimi mottot pannan papaya samsas svassa tafatt (6,9)  
most repeated letters korrigeringstransaktion materialstyrningssystem (9,2)  
highest containing a repeated anva"ndarsammanslutningar (5,1)  
highest containing b repeated bearbetningsbeskrivning blixtsnabbt bubbelminne bubbelminnet bubbla bubblorna (3,6)  
highest containing c repeated Chicago acceleration accelerator acceleratorer accelererad accent accentuera acceptabel acceptabelt acceptabla ... (2,35)  
highest containing d repeated skra"ddarsydd (4,1)  
highest containing e repeated beteendevetenskapliga (6,1)  
highest containing f repeated Friluftsfra"mjandet Friluftsfra"mjandets fiffig fiffigt fiffla fo"ra"ldratra"ff fo"rbluffa fo"rfattarfond fo"rtra"fflighet friluftsfra"mjandets ... (3,12)  
highest containing g repeated smugglingslagstiftning (5,1)  
highest containing h repeated hemho"righet (3,1)  
highest containing i repeated initialisering (5,1)  
highest containing j repeated jockej jojk jojo projektuppfo"ljningen tjej tjejer (2,6)  
highest containing k repeated kyrkvakterskan (4,1)  
highest containing l repeated omsta"llningstillfa"llet (6,1)  
highest containing m repeated gemensammma (4,1)  
highest containing n repeated anknytningen anpassningsutrustning anva"ndarfo"reningen anva"ndarsammanslutningar anva"ndningen anva"ndningsomra@den anva"ndningsteknik betalningsbevakningen ledningsdragningen minnesanteckningsar ... (5,16)  
highest containing o repeated socialantropolog (4,1)  
highest containing p repeated papperstyp trappuppga@ngar uppkoppling uppkopplingsbega"ran uppkopplingsfo"rso"k uppsluppen vippomkopplare vippomkopplaren vippomkopplarens vippomkopplarna (4,10)  
highest containing q repeated Nyqvist Osquar Osquarulda Osqulda lindqvist squaw toque (1,7)  
highest containing r repeated programmerarkretsen programmeringsfo"rutsa"ttningar ra@varuresurser systemprogrammerarkursen (5,4)  
highest containing s repeated produktionsstyrningssystem programmeringsassistans synkroniseringssekvenser sysselsa"tts (5,4)  
highest containing t repeated utnyttjandestatistik (6,1)  
highest containing u repeated maskinvarustrukturer (3,1)  
highest containing v repeated Ulvsundava"gen Volvo a"rtvivel anva"ndarbeskrivning anva"ndarkravspecifikation anva"ndarutveckling anva"ndarva"nliga anva"ndarva"nlighet anva"ndarva"nligt anvvisning ... (2,130)  
highest containing w repeated knowhow (2,1)  
highest containing x repeated xenix (2,1)  
highest containing y repeated materialstyrningssystem nybyggare nybyggaren nybyggd nybyggnad nyrekrytering produktionsstyrningssystem royalty synonym synonyma ... (2,12)  
highest containing z repeated intermezzo intermezzot jazz (2,3)  
most different letters fasfo"rskjutningsproblem (18,1)  
highest ratio length/letters mormorsmors (275,1)  
highest ratio length/letters (no tautonyms) mormorsmors (275,1)  
lowest length 16 ratio length/letters funktionsfo"rma"ga (114,1)  
lowest length 17 ratio length/letters skolmyndigheterna (113,1)  
lowest length 18 ratio length/letters Friluftsfra"mjandet a@klagarmyndigheten anva"ndarutveckling befolkningstrycket datorbestyckningen uppdateringsfa"lten uppfo"ljningssystem utbildningslokaler (128,8)  
lowest length 19 ratio length/letters upphandlingsbehovet va"xlingsfo"rfarandet (126,2)  
lowest length 20 ratio length/letters a@lderdomsskro"plighet fo"rbrukningsmaterial fo"rbrukningsmateriel kompileringsa@tga"rder ordbehandlingssystem (133,5)  
lowest length 21 ratio length/letters ha@rdvarubesta"llningar upplysningsverksamhet (131,2)  
lowest length 22 ratio length/letters fo"rfattningshandbo"cker tra"dplanteringskampanj tra"dplanteringsprojekt (146,3)  
lowest length 23 ratio length/letters fasfo"rskjutningsproblem (127,1)  
lowest length 24 ratio length/letters cirkulationstja"nstgo"ring (160,1)  
lowest length 25 ratio length/letters teckenomvandlingstabeller (156,1)  

Letter Appearance
longest short letters mormorsmors (11,1)  
longest tall letters liktydigt (9,1)  
longest vertical-symmetry letters automat maximum oha"mmat (7,3)  
longest horizontal-symmetry letters dioxid ebcdic ekbock (6,3)  
longest full-symmetry letters ?
highest ratio of dotted letters idioti minimi (50,2)  

Typewriter
longest top row prioritet (9,1)  
longest middle row flaskhals (9,1)  
longest bottom row mm (2,1)  
longest in order uppha"v (6,1)  
longest in reverse order ba"ttre kaputt va"ggar (6,3)  
longest left hand Westerberg adressater vedertaget (10,3)  
longest right hand homonym million minimum monopol oja"mlik opinion polynom (7,7)  
longest alternating hands provisoriskt (12,1)  
longest one finger hunn hymn (4,2)  
longest adjacent keys dessa dress edert freds yttre (5,5)  

Puzzle
longest palindrome in Morse code esse no"ja sans tant (4,4)  
longest formed with chemical symbols banbeskrivningen replikerbarheten representationer (16,3)  
longest formed with US postal codes Gunvor Pascal indela inlade inland inviga memoar utdela utlade utland ... (6,12)  
longest formed with amino acid abbreviations asp pro (3,2)  
longest formed with piano notes bagage (6,1)  

Letter Order

Alphabetical
longest letters in order abort ansta@ begin behov bersa@ besta@ bista@ borst deist dekor ... (5,13)  
longest letters in order with repeats accent access belopp (6,3)  
longest letters in reverse order o"vriga poliga trolig utreda (6,4)  
longest letters in reverse order with repeats utsedda (7,1)  
longest roller-coaster parameterfa"lten (15,1)  
longest no letters in place programmeringsfo"rutsa"ttningar (29,1)  
most letters in place abstraktion akademi akademiker akademin akademisk alldeles anma"lningsblankett anskaffning anskaffningar ansta"llningsnummer ... (3,42)  
most letters in place shifted kooperativ masterslavetyp operativ operativa operativt ordbehandlingssystem textbehandlingssystem torparstugan upphandlingsbeslut (5,9)  
most consecutive letters in order consecutively gra"ddstuvad gra"ddstuvade gra"stuva gra"stuvan stuva timmerstuga torparstugan (4,7)  
most consecutive letters in order gra"ddstuvad gra"ddstuvade gra"stuva gra"stuvan (5,4)  
most consecutive letters fo"rfattningshandbo"cker (9,1)  
highest ratio of consecutive letters to length vurst (100,1)  

==> language/synonymous.reversals.p <==
What words are synonymous with their reversals in other langauges?

==> language/synonymous.reversals.s <==
Dutch: nier (kidney), French: rein

Almost:
French: etats (plural), English: state (singular)

==> language/vowels.repeated.p <==
In any language, what word contains the same vowel repeated four times in a row?

==> language/vowels.repeated.s <==
Article 23235 of rec.puzzles:
Newsgroups: rec.puzzles
Path: questrel!news.cerf.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!uwm.edu!linac!att!princeton!phoenix.Princeton.EDU!cgseife
From: cgseife@phoenix.Princeton.EDU (Charles Geoffrey Seife)
Subject: Re: possibly original puzzle...
Message-ID: <1993May1.034910.21220@Princeton.EDU>
Originator: news@nimaster
Sender: news@Princeton.EDU (USENET News System)
Nntp-Posting-Host: phoenix.princeton.edu
Organization: Princeton University
References: <93118.193310RVESTERM@vma.cc.nd.edu> <1993Apr29.222358.1@vaxc.stevens-tech.edu> <C6B4Mt.9py@dartvax.dartmouth.edu>
Date: Sat, 1 May 1993 03:49:10 GMT
Lines: 28

In article <C6B4Mt.9py@dartvax.dartmouth.edu> zed@Dartmouth.EDU (Ted Schuerzinger) writes:
>In article <1993Apr29.222358.1@vaxc.stevens-tech.edu>
>u96_amckenna@vaxc.stevens-tech.edu writes:
>
>
>Unfortunately, that's not what the question asked -- it states that the
>first two vowels must be the same.
>
>For three vowels in a row, I came up with words like "booing" and
>"cooing".  A better one might be "agreeable".  I haven't come up with
>one for four yet, but I read in an old edition of Guinness that there's
>an Estonian word that contains has the same vowel four times in a row. 
>Since the question didn't specify English words, I guess this would be
>acceptable, as would words in other agglutinative languages (eg.
>Finnish)  :-)
>
>
>--Ted Schuerzinger
The Estonian word 'Ja"a"a"a"rne', which means "standing by the edge
of the ice."

